Infinite Photorealistic Worlds using Procedural Generation
We introduce Infinigen, a procedural generator of photorealistic 3D scenes of the natural world. Infinigen is entirely procedural: every asset, from shape to texture, is generated from scratch via randomized mathematical rules, using no external source and allowing infinite variation and composition. Infinigen offers broad coverage of objects and scenes in the natural world including plants, animals, terrains, and natural phenomena such as fire, cloud, rain, and snow. Infinigen can be used to generate unlimited, diverse training data for a wide range of computer vision tasks including object detection, semantic segmentation, optical flow, and 3D reconstruction. We expect Infinigen to be a useful resource for computer vision research and beyond. Please visit https://infinigen.org for videos, code and pre-generated data.
NAVI: Category-Agnostic Image Collections with High-Quality 3D Shape and Pose Annotations
Recent advances in neural reconstruction enable high-quality 3D object reconstruction from casually captured image collections. Current techniques mostly analyze their progress on relatively simple image collections where Structure-from-Motion (SfM) techniques can provide ground-truth (GT) camera poses. We note that SfM techniques tend to fail on in-the-wild image collections such as image search results with varying backgrounds and illuminations. To enable systematic research progress on 3D reconstruction from casual image captures, we propose NAVI: a new dataset of category-agnostic image collections of objects with high-quality 3D scans along with per-image 2D-3D alignments providing near-perfect GT camera parameters. These 2D-3D alignments allow us to extract accurate derivative annotations such as dense pixel correspondences, depth and segmentation maps. We demonstrate the use of NAVI image collections on different problem settings and show that NAVI enables more thorough evaluations that were not possible with existing datasets. We believe NAVI is beneficial for systematic research progress on 3D reconstruction and correspondence estimation. Project page: https://navidataset.github.io
Enhancing Neural Rendering Methods with Image Augmentations
Faithfully reconstructing 3D geometry and generating novel views of scenes are critical tasks in 3D computer vision. Despite the widespread use of image augmentations across computer vision applications, their potential remains underexplored when learning neural rendering methods (NRMs) for 3D scenes. This paper presents a comprehensive analysis of the use of image augmentations in NRMs, where we explore different augmentation strategies. We found that introducing image augmentations during training presents challenges such as geometric and photometric inconsistencies for learning NRMs from images. Specifically, geometric inconsistencies arise from alterations in shapes, positions, and orientations from the augmentations, disrupting spatial cues necessary for accurate 3D reconstruction. On the other hand, photometric inconsistencies arise from changes in pixel intensities introduced by the augmentations, affecting the ability to capture the underlying 3D structures of the scene. We alleviate these issues by focusing on color manipulations and introducing learnable appearance embeddings that allow NRMs to explain away photometric variations. Our experiments demonstrate the benefits of incorporating augmentations when learning NRMs, including improved photometric quality and surface reconstruction, as well as enhanced robustness against data quality issues, such as reduced training data and image degradations.
Learning to Predict Scene-Level Implicit 3D from Posed RGBD Data
We introduce a method that can learn to predict scene-level implicit functions for 3D reconstruction from posed RGBD data. At test time, our system maps a previously unseen RGB image to a 3D reconstruction of a scene via implicit functions. While implicit functions for 3D reconstruction have often been tied to meshes, we show that we can train one using only a set of posed RGBD images. This setting may help 3D reconstruction unlock the sea of accelerometer+RGBD data that is coming with new phones. Our system, D2-DRDF, can match and sometimes outperform current methods that use mesh supervision and shows better robustness to sparse data.
Viewset Diffusion: (0-)Image-Conditioned 3D Generative Models from 2D Data
We present Viewset Diffusion: a framework for training image-conditioned 3D generative models from 2D data. Image-conditioned 3D generative models allow us to address the inherent ambiguity in single-view 3D reconstruction. Given one image of an object, there is often more than one possible 3D volume that matches the input image, because a single image never captures all sides of an object. Deterministic models are inherently limited to producing one possible reconstruction and therefore make mistakes in ambiguous settings. Modelling distributions of 3D shapes is challenging because 3D ground truth data is often not available. We propose to solve the issue of data availability by training a diffusion model which jointly denoises a multi-view image set.We constrain the output of Viewset Diffusion models to a single 3D volume per image set, guaranteeing consistent geometry. Training is done through reconstruction losses on renderings, allowing training with only three images per object. Our design of architecture and training scheme allows our model to perform 3D generation and generative, ambiguity-aware single-view reconstruction in a feed-forward manner. Project page: szymanowiczs.github.io/viewset-diffusion.
SMART: Spatial Modeling Algorithms for Reaction and Transport
Recent advances in microscopy and 3D reconstruction methods have allowed for characterization of cellular morphology in unprecedented detail, including the irregular geometries of intracellular subcompartments such as membrane-bound organelles. These geometries are now compatible with predictive modeling of cellular function. Biological cells respond to stimuli through sequences of chemical reactions generally referred to as cell signaling pathways. The propagation and reaction of chemical substances in cell signaling pathways can be represented by coupled nonlinear systems of reaction-transport equations. These reaction pathways include numerous chemical species that react across boundaries or interfaces (e.g., the cell membrane and membranes of organelles within the cell) and domains (e.g., the bulk cell volume and the interior of organelles). Such systems of multi-dimensional partial differential equations (PDEs) are notoriously difficult to solve because of their high dimensionality, non-linearities, strong coupling, stiffness, and potential instabilities. In this work, we describe Spatial Modeling Algorithms for Reactions and Transport (SMART), a high-performance finite-element-based simulation package for model specification and numerical simulation of spatially-varying reaction-transport processes. SMART is based on the FEniCS finite element library, provides a symbolic representation framework for specifying reaction pathways, and supports geometries in 2D and 3D including large and irregular cell geometries obtained from modern ultrastructural characterization methods.
Reconstructing Heterogeneous Cryo-EM Molecular Structures by Decomposing Them into Polymer Chains
Cryogenic electron microscopy (cryo-EM) has transformed structural biology by allowing to reconstruct 3D biomolecular structures up to near-atomic resolution. However, the 3D reconstruction process remains challenging, as the 3D structures may exhibit substantial shape variations, while the 2D image acquisition suffers from a low signal-to-noise ratio, requiring to acquire very large datasets that are time-consuming to process. Current reconstruction methods are precise but computationally expensive, or faster but lack a physically-plausible model of large molecular shape variations. To fill this gap, we propose CryoChains that encodes large deformations of biomolecules via rigid body transformation of their polymer instances (chains), while representing their finer shape variations with the normal mode analysis framework of biophysics. Our synthetic data experiments on the human $\text{GABA}_{\text{B}}$ and heat shock protein show that CryoChains gives a biophysically-grounded quantification of the heterogeneous conformations of biomolecules, while reconstructing their 3D molecular structures at an improved resolution compared to the current fastest, interpretable deep learning method.
Fast light-field 3D microscopy with out-of-distribution detection and adaptation through Conditional Normalizing Flows
Real-time 3D fluorescence microscopy is crucial for the spatiotemporal analysis of live organisms, such as neural activity monitoring. The eXtended field-of-view light field microscope (XLFM), also known as Fourier light field microscope, is a straightforward, single snapshot solution to achieve this. The XLFM acquires spatial-angular information in a single camera exposure. In a subsequent step, a 3D volume can be algorithmically reconstructed, making it exceptionally well-suited for real-time 3D acquisition and potential analysis. Unfortunately, traditional reconstruction methods (like deconvolution) require lengthy processing times (0.0220 Hz), hampering the speed advantages of the XLFM. Neural network architectures can overcome the speed constraints at the expense of lacking certainty metrics, which renders them untrustworthy for the biomedical realm. This work proposes a novel architecture to perform fast 3D reconstructions of live immobilized zebrafish neural activity based on a conditional normalizing flow. It reconstructs volumes at 8 Hz spanning 512x512x96 voxels, and it can be trained in under two hours due to the small dataset requirements (10 image-volume pairs). Furthermore, normalizing flows allow for exact Likelihood computation, enabling distribution monitoring, followed by out-of-distribution detection and retraining of the system when a novel sample is detected. We evaluate the proposed method on a cross-validation approach involving multiple in-distribution samples (genetically identical zebrafish) and various out-of-distribution ones.
3D reconstruction using Structure for Motion
We are working towards 3D reconstruction of indoor spaces using a pair of HDR cameras in a stereo vision configuration mounted on an indoor mobile floor robot that captures various textures and spatial features as 2D images and this data is simultaneously utilized as a feed to our algorithm which will allow us to visualize the depth map.
NERFBK: A High-Quality Benchmark for NERF-Based 3D Reconstruction
This paper introduces a new real and synthetic dataset called NeRFBK specifically designed for testing and comparing NeRF-based 3D reconstruction algorithms. High-quality 3D reconstruction has significant potential in various fields, and advancements in image-based algorithms make it essential to evaluate new advanced techniques. However, gathering diverse data with precise ground truth is challenging and may not encompass all relevant applications. The NeRFBK dataset addresses this issue by providing multi-scale, indoor and outdoor datasets with high-resolution images and videos and camera parameters for testing and comparing NeRF-based algorithms. This paper presents the design and creation of the NeRFBK benchmark, various examples and application scenarios, and highlights its potential for advancing the field of 3D reconstruction.
Neural Haircut: Prior-Guided Strand-Based Hair Reconstruction
Generating realistic human 3D reconstructions using image or video data is essential for various communication and entertainment applications. While existing methods achieved impressive results for body and facial regions, realistic hair modeling still remains challenging due to its high mechanical complexity. This work proposes an approach capable of accurate hair geometry reconstruction at a strand level from a monocular video or multi-view images captured in uncontrolled lighting conditions. Our method has two stages, with the first stage performing joint reconstruction of coarse hair and bust shapes and hair orientation using implicit volumetric representations. The second stage then estimates a strand-level hair reconstruction by reconciling in a single optimization process the coarse volumetric constraints with hair strand and hairstyle priors learned from the synthetic data. To further increase the reconstruction fidelity, we incorporate image-based losses into the fitting process using a new differentiable renderer. The combined system, named Neural Haircut, achieves high realism and personalization of the reconstructed hairstyles.
2D Supervised Monocular 3D Object Detection by Global-to-Local 3D Reconstruction
With the advent of the big model era, the demand for data has become more important. Especially in monocular 3D object detection, expensive manual annotations potentially limit further developments. Existing works have investigated weakly supervised algorithms with the help of LiDAR modality to generate 3D pseudo labels, which cannot be applied to ordinary videos. In this paper, we propose a novel paradigm, termed as BA$^2$-Det, leveraging the idea of global-to-local 3D reconstruction for 2D supervised monocular 3D object detection. Specifically, we recover 3D structures from monocular videos by scene-level global reconstruction with global bundle adjustment (BA) and obtain object clusters by the DoubleClustering algorithm. Learning from completely reconstructed objects in global BA, GBA-Learner predicts pseudo labels for occluded objects. Finally, we train an LBA-Learner with object-centric local BA to generalize the generated 3D pseudo labels to moving objects. Experiments on the large-scale Waymo Open Dataset show that the performance of BA$^2$-Det is on par with the fully-supervised BA-Det trained with 10% videos and even outperforms some pioneer fully-supervised methods. We also show the great potential of BA$^2$-Det for detecting open-set 3D objects in complex scenes. The code will be made available. Project page: https://ba2det.site .
Enhance-NeRF: Multiple Performance Evaluation for Neural Radiance Fields
The quality of three-dimensional reconstruction is a key factor affecting the effectiveness of its application in areas such as virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR) technologies. Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) can generate realistic images from any viewpoint. It simultaneously reconstructs the shape, lighting, and materials of objects, and without surface defects, which breaks down the barrier between virtuality and reality. The potential spatial correspondences displayed by NeRF between reconstructed scenes and real-world scenes offer a wide range of practical applications possibilities. Despite significant progress in 3D reconstruction since NeRF were introduced, there remains considerable room for exploration and experimentation. NeRF-based models are susceptible to interference issues caused by colored "fog" noise. Additionally, they frequently encounter instabilities and failures while attempting to reconstruct unbounded scenes. Moreover, the model takes a significant amount of time to converge, making it even more challenging to use in such scenarios. Our approach, coined Enhance-NeRF, which adopts joint color to balance low and high reflectivity objects display, utilizes a decoding architecture with prior knowledge to improve recognition, and employs multi-layer performance evaluation mechanisms to enhance learning capacity. It achieves reconstruction of outdoor scenes within one hour under single-card condition. Based on experimental results, Enhance-NeRF partially enhances fitness capability and provides some support to outdoor scene reconstruction. The Enhance-NeRF method can be used as a plug-and-play component, making it easy to integrate with other NeRF-based models. The code is available at: https://github.com/TANQIanQ/Enhance-NeRF
BU-CVKit: Extendable Computer Vision Framework for Species Independent Tracking and Analysis
A major bottleneck of interdisciplinary computer vision (CV) research is the lack of a framework that eases the reuse and abstraction of state-of-the-art CV models by CV and non-CV researchers alike. We present here BU-CVKit, a computer vision framework that allows the creation of research pipelines with chainable Processors. The community can create plugins of their work for the framework, hence improving the re-usability, accessibility, and exposure of their work with minimal overhead. Furthermore, we provide MuSeqPose Kit, a user interface for the pose estimation package of BU-CVKit, which automatically scans for installed plugins and programmatically generates an interface for them based on the metadata provided by the user. It also provides software support for standard pose estimation features such as annotations, 3D reconstruction, reprojection, and camera calibration. Finally, we show examples of behavioral neuroscience pipelines created through the sample plugins created for our framework.
DiViNeT: 3D Reconstruction from Disparate Views via Neural Template Regularization
We present a volume rendering-based neural surface reconstruction method that takes as few as three disparate RGB images as input. Our key idea is to regularize the reconstruction, which is severely ill-posed and leaving significant gaps between the sparse views, by learning a set of neural templates that act as surface priors. Our method coined DiViNet, operates in two stages. The first stage learns the templates, in the form of 3D Gaussian functions, across different scenes, without 3D supervision. In the reconstruction stage, our predicted templates serve as anchors to help "stitch" the surfaces over sparse regions. We demonstrate that our approach is not only able to complete the surface geometry but also reconstructs surface details to a reasonable extent from few disparate input views. On the DTU and BlendedMVS datasets, our approach achieves the best reconstruction quality among existing methods in the presence of such sparse views, and performs on par, if not better, with competing methods when dense views are employed as inputs.
BeyondPixels: A Comprehensive Review of the Evolution of Neural Radiance Fields
Neural rendering combines ideas from classical computer graphics and machine learning to synthesize images from real-world observations. NeRF, short for Neural Radiance Fields, is a recent innovation that uses AI algorithms to create 3D objects from 2D images. By leveraging an interpolation approach, NeRF can produce new 3D reconstructed views of complicated scenes. Rather than directly restoring the whole 3D scene geometry, NeRF generates a volumetric representation called a ``radiance field,'' which is capable of creating color and density for every point within the relevant 3D space. The broad appeal and notoriety of NeRF make it imperative to examine the existing research on the topic comprehensively. While previous surveys on 3D rendering have primarily focused on traditional computer vision-based or deep learning-based approaches, only a handful of them discuss the potential of NeRF. However, such surveys have predominantly focused on NeRF's early contributions and have not explored its full potential. NeRF is a relatively new technique continuously being investigated for its capabilities and limitations. This survey reviews recent advances in NeRF and categorizes them according to their architectural designs, especially in the field of novel view synthesis.
Image Reconstruction for Accelerated MR Scan with Faster Fourier Convolutional Neural Networks
Partial scan is a common approach to accelerate Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) data acquisition in both 2D and 3D settings. However, accurately reconstructing images from partial scan data (i.e., incomplete k-space matrices) remains challenging due to lack of an effectively global receptive field in both spatial and k-space domains. To address this problem, we propose the following: (1) a novel convolutional operator called Faster Fourier Convolution (FasterFC) to replace the two consecutive convolution operations typically used in convolutional neural networks (e.g., U-Net, ResNet). Based on the spectral convolution theorem in Fourier theory, FasterFC employs alternating kernels of size 1 in 3D case) in different domains to extend the dual-domain receptive field to the global and achieves faster calculation speed than traditional Fast Fourier Convolution (FFC). (2) A 2D accelerated MRI method, FasterFC-End-to-End-VarNet, which uses FasterFC to improve the sensitivity maps and reconstruction quality. (3) A multi-stage 3D accelerated MRI method called FasterFC-based Single-to-group Network (FAS-Net) that utilizes a single-to-group algorithm to guide k-space domain reconstruction, followed by FasterFC-based cascaded convolutional neural networks to expand the effective receptive field in the dual-domain. Experimental results on the fastMRI and Stanford MRI Data datasets demonstrate that FasterFC improves the quality of both 2D and 3D reconstruction. Moreover, FAS-Net, as a 3D high-resolution multi-coil (eight) accelerated MRI method, achieves superior reconstruction performance in both qualitative and quantitative results compared with state-of-the-art 2D and 3D methods.
Single-Stage 3D Geometry-Preserving Depth Estimation Model Training on Dataset Mixtures with Uncalibrated Stereo Data
Nowadays, robotics, AR, and 3D modeling applications attract considerable attention to single-view depth estimation (SVDE) as it allows estimating scene geometry from a single RGB image. Recent works have demonstrated that the accuracy of an SVDE method hugely depends on the diversity and volume of the training data. However, RGB-D datasets obtained via depth capturing or 3D reconstruction are typically small, synthetic datasets are not photorealistic enough, and all these datasets lack diversity. The large-scale and diverse data can be sourced from stereo images or stereo videos from the web. Typically being uncalibrated, stereo data provides disparities up to unknown shift (geometrically incomplete data), so stereo-trained SVDE methods cannot recover 3D geometry. It was recently shown that the distorted point clouds obtained with a stereo-trained SVDE method can be corrected with additional point cloud modules (PCM) separately trained on the geometrically complete data. On the contrary, we propose GP$^{2}$, General-Purpose and Geometry-Preserving training scheme, and show that conventional SVDE models can learn correct shifts themselves without any post-processing, benefiting from using stereo data even in the geometry-preserving setting. Through experiments on different dataset mixtures, we prove that GP$^{2}$-trained models outperform methods relying on PCM in both accuracy and speed, and report the state-of-the-art results in the general-purpose geometry-preserving SVDE. Moreover, we show that SVDE models can learn to predict geometrically correct depth even when geometrically complete data comprises the minor part of the training set.
Computational 3D topographic microscopy from terabytes of data per sample
We present a large-scale computational 3D topographic microscope that enables 6-gigapixel profilometric 3D imaging at micron-scale resolution across $>$110 cm$^2$ areas over multi-millimeter axial ranges. Our computational microscope, termed STARCAM (Scanning Topographic All-in-focus Reconstruction with a Computational Array Microscope), features a parallelized, 54-camera architecture with 3-axis translation to capture, for each sample of interest, a multi-dimensional, 2.1-terabyte (TB) dataset, consisting of a total of 224,640 9.4-megapixel images. We developed a self-supervised neural network-based algorithm for 3D reconstruction and stitching that jointly estimates an all-in-focus photometric composite and 3D height map across the entire field of view, using multi-view stereo information and image sharpness as a focal metric. The memory-efficient, compressed differentiable representation offered by the neural network effectively enables joint participation of the entire multi-TB dataset during the reconstruction process. To demonstrate the broad utility of our new computational microscope, we applied STARCAM to a variety of decimeter-scale objects, with applications ranging from cultural heritage to industrial inspection.
Adaptive Robotic Information Gathering via Non-Stationary Gaussian Processes
Robotic Information Gathering (RIG) is a foundational research topic that answers how a robot (team) collects informative data to efficiently build an accurate model of an unknown target function under robot embodiment constraints. RIG has many applications, including but not limited to autonomous exploration and mapping, 3D reconstruction or inspection, search and rescue, and environmental monitoring. A RIG system relies on a probabilistic model's prediction uncertainty to identify critical areas for informative data collection. Gaussian Processes (GPs) with stationary kernels have been widely adopted for spatial modeling. However, real-world spatial data is typically non-stationary -- different locations do not have the same degree of variability. As a result, the prediction uncertainty does not accurately reveal prediction error, limiting the success of RIG algorithms. We propose a family of non-stationary kernels named Attentive Kernel (AK), which is simple, robust, and can extend any existing kernel to a non-stationary one. We evaluate the new kernel in elevation mapping tasks, where AK provides better accuracy and uncertainty quantification over the commonly used stationary kernels and the leading non-stationary kernels. The improved uncertainty quantification guides the downstream informative planner to collect more valuable data around the high-error area, further increasing prediction accuracy. A field experiment demonstrates that the proposed method can guide an Autonomous Surface Vehicle (ASV) to prioritize data collection in locations with significant spatial variations, enabling the model to characterize salient environmental features.
