NeuroGF: A Neural Representation for Fast Geodesic Distance and Path Queries
Geodesics are essential in many geometry processing applications. However, traditional algorithms for computing geodesic distances and paths on 3D mesh models are often inefficient and slow. This makes them impractical for scenarios that require extensive querying of arbitrary point-to-point geodesics. Although neural implicit representations have emerged as a popular way of representing 3D shape geometries, there is still no research on representing geodesics with deep implicit functions. To bridge this gap, this paper presents the first attempt to represent geodesics on 3D mesh models using neural implicit functions. Specifically, we introduce neural geodesic fields (NeuroGFs), which are learned to represent the all-pairs geodesics of a given mesh. By using NeuroGFs, we can efficiently and accurately answer queries of arbitrary point-to-point geodesic distances and paths, overcoming the limitations of traditional algorithms. Evaluations on common 3D models show that NeuroGFs exhibit exceptional performance in solving the single-source all-destination (SSAD) and point-to-point geodesics, and achieve high accuracy consistently. Moreover, NeuroGFs offer the unique advantage of encoding both 3D geometry and geodesics in a unified representation. Code is made available at https://github.com/keeganhk/NeuroGF/tree/master.
Surface Simplification using Intrinsic Error Metrics
This paper describes a method for fast simplification of surface meshes. Whereas past methods focus on visual appearance, our goal is to solve equations on the surface. Hence, rather than approximate the extrinsic geometry, we construct a coarse intrinsic triangulation of the input domain. In the spirit of the quadric error metric (QEM), we perform greedy decimation while agglomerating global information about approximation error. In lieu of extrinsic quadrics, however, we store intrinsic tangent vectors that track how far curvature "drifts" during simplification. This process also yields a bijective map between the fine and coarse mesh, and prolongation operators for both scalar- and vector-valued data. Moreover, we obtain hard guarantees on element quality via intrinsic retriangulation - a feature unique to the intrinsic setting. The overall payoff is a "black box" approach to geometry processing, which decouples mesh resolution from the size of matrices used to solve equations. We show how our method benefits several fundamental tasks, including geometric multigrid, all-pairs geodesic distance, mean curvature flow, geodesic Voronoi diagrams, and the discrete exponential map.
A Closest Point Method for Surface PDEs with Interior Boundary Conditions for Geometry Processing
Many geometry processing techniques require the solution of partial differential equations (PDEs) on surfaces. Such surface PDEs often involve boundary conditions prescribed on the surface, at points or curves on its interior or along the geometric (exterior) boundary of an open surface. However, input surfaces can take many forms (e.g., meshes, parametric surfaces, point clouds, level sets, neural implicits). One must therefore generate a mesh to apply finite element-type techniques or derive specialized discretization procedures for each surface representation.   We propose instead to address such problems through a novel extension of the closest point method (CPM) to handle interior boundary conditions specified at surface points or curves. CPM solves the surface PDE by solving a volumetric PDE defined over the Cartesian embedding space containing the surface; only a closest point function is required to represent the surface. As such, CPM supports surfaces that are open or closed, orientable or not, and of any codimension or even mixed-codimension. To enable support for interior boundary conditions, we develop a method to implicitly partition the embedding space across interior boundaries. CPM's finite difference and interpolation stencils are adapted to respect this partition while preserving second-order accuracy. Furthermore, an efficient sparse-grid implementation and numerical solver is developed that can scale to tens of millions of degrees of freedom, allowing PDEs to be solved on more complex surfaces. We demonstrate our method's convergence behaviour on selected model PDEs. Several geometry processing problems are explored: diffusion curves on surfaces, geodesic distance, tangent vector field design, and harmonic map construction. Our proposed approach thus offers a powerful and flexible new tool for a range of geometry processing tasks on general surface representations.
Cortical analysis of heterogeneous clinical brain MRI scans for large-scale neuroimaging studies
Surface analysis of the cortex is ubiquitous in human neuroimaging with MRI, e.g., for cortical registration, parcellation, or thickness estimation. The convoluted cortical geometry requires isotropic scans (e.g., 1mm MPRAGEs) and good gray-white matter contrast for 3D reconstruction. This precludes the analysis of most brain MRI scans acquired for clinical purposes. Analyzing such scans would enable neuroimaging studies with sample sizes that cannot be achieved with current research datasets, particularly for underrepresented populations and rare diseases. Here we present the first method for cortical reconstruction, registration, parcellation, and thickness estimation for clinical brain MRI scans of any resolution and pulse sequence. The methods has a learning component and a classical optimization module. The former uses domain randomization to train a CNN that predicts an implicit representation of the white matter and pial surfaces (a signed distance function) at 1mm isotropic resolution, independently of the pulse sequence and resolution of the input. The latter uses geometry processing to place the surfaces while accurately satisfying topological and geometric constraints, thus enabling subsequent parcellation and thickness estimation with existing methods. We present results on 5mm axial FLAIR scans from ADNI and on a highly heterogeneous clinical dataset with 5,000 scans. Code and data are publicly available at https://surfer.nmr.mgh.harvard.edu/fswiki/recon-all-clinical
Globally Consistent Normal Orientation for Point Clouds by Regularizing the Winding-Number Field
Estimating normals with globally consistent orientations for a raw point cloud has many downstream geometry processing applications. Despite tremendous efforts in the past decades, it remains challenging to deal with an unoriented point cloud with various imperfections, particularly in the presence of data sparsity coupled with nearby gaps or thin-walled structures. In this paper, we propose a smooth objective function to characterize the requirements of an acceptable winding-number field, which allows one to find the globally consistent normal orientations starting from a set of completely random normals. By taking the vertices of the Voronoi diagram of the point cloud as examination points, we consider the following three requirements: (1) the winding number is either 0 or 1, (2) the occurrences of 1 and the occurrences of 0 are balanced around the point cloud, and (3) the normals align with the outside Voronoi poles as much as possible. Extensive experimental results show that our method outperforms the existing approaches, especially in handling sparse and noisy point clouds, as well as shapes with complex geometry/topology.
High-Performance and Flexible Parallel Algorithms for Semisort and Related Problems
Semisort is a fundamental algorithmic primitive widely used in the design and analysis of efficient parallel algorithms. It takes input as an array of records and a function extracting a \emph{key} per record, and reorders them so that records with equal keys are contiguous. Since many applications only require collecting equal values, but not fully sorting the input, semisort is broadly applicable, e.g., in string algorithms, graph analytics, and geometry processing, among many other domains. However, despite dozens of recent papers that use semisort in their theoretical analysis and the existence of an asymptotically optimal parallel semisort algorithm, most implementations of these parallel algorithms choose to implement semisort by using comparison or integer sorting in practice, due to potential performance issues in existing semisort implementations.   In this paper, we revisit the semisort problem, with the goal of achieving a high-performance parallel semisort implementation with a flexible interface. Our approach can easily extend to two related problems, \emph{histogram} and \emph{collect-reduce}. Our algorithms achieve strong speedups in practice, and importantly, outperform state-of-the-art parallel sorting and semisorting methods for almost all settings we tested, with varying input sizes, distribution, and key types. We also test two important applications with real-world data, and show that our algorithms improve the performance over existing approaches. We believe that many other parallel algorithm implementations can be accelerated using our results.
Tetra-NeRF: Representing Neural Radiance Fields Using Tetrahedra
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) are a very recent and very popular approach for the problems of novel view synthesis and 3D reconstruction. A popular scene representation used by NeRFs is to combine a uniform, voxel-based subdivision of the scene with an MLP. Based on the observation that a (sparse) point cloud of the scene is often available, this paper proposes to use an adaptive representation based on tetrahedra obtained by the Delaunay triangulation instead of the uniform subdivision or point-based representations. We show that such a representation enables efficient training and leads to state-of-the-art results. Our approach elegantly combines concepts from 3D geometry processing, triangle-based rendering, and modern neural radiance fields. Compared to voxel-based representations, ours provides more detail around parts of the scene likely to be close to the surface. Compared to point-based representations, our approach achieves better performance.
NerVE: Neural Volumetric Edges for Parametric Curve Extraction from Point Cloud
Extracting parametric edge curves from point clouds is a fundamental problem in 3D vision and geometry processing. Existing approaches mainly rely on keypoint detection, a challenging procedure that tends to generate noisy output, making the subsequent edge extraction error-prone. To address this issue, we propose to directly detect structured edges to circumvent the limitations of the previous point-wise methods. We achieve this goal by presenting NerVE, a novel neural volumetric edge representation that can be easily learned through a volumetric learning framework. NerVE can be seamlessly converted to a versatile piece-wise linear (PWL) curve representation, enabling a unified strategy for learning all types of free-form curves. Furthermore, as NerVE encodes rich structural information, we show that edge extraction based on NerVE can be reduced to a simple graph search problem. After converting NerVE to the PWL representation, parametric curves can be obtained via off-the-shelf spline fitting algorithms. We evaluate our method on the challenging ABC dataset. We show that a simple network based on NerVE can already outperform the previous state-of-the-art methods by a great margin. Project page: https://dongdu3.github.io/projects/2023/NerVE/.
Scalable and Efficient Functional Map Computations on Dense Meshes
Spectral geometric methods have brought revolutionary changes to the field of geometry processing. Of particular interest is the study of the Laplacian spectrum as a compact, isometry and permutation-invariant representation of a shape. Some recent works show how the intrinsic geometry of a full shape can be recovered from its spectrum, but there are approaches that consider the more challenging problem of recovering the geometry from the spectral information of partial shapes. In this paper, we propose a possible way to fill this gap. We introduce a learning-based method to estimate the Laplacian spectrum of the union of partial non-rigid 3D shapes, without actually computing the 3D geometry of the union or any correspondence between those partial shapes. We do so by operating purely in the spectral domain and by defining the union operation between short sequences of eigenvalues. We show that the approximated union spectrum can be used as-is to reconstruct the complete geometry [MRC*19], perform region localization on a template [RTO*19] and retrieve shapes from a database, generalizing ShapeDNA [RWP06] to work with partialities. Working with eigenvalues allows us to deal with unknown correspondence, different sampling, and different discretizations (point clouds and meshes alike), making this operation especially robust and general. Our approach is data-driven and can generalize to isometric and non-isometric deformations of the surface, as long as these stay within the same semantic class (e.g., human bodies or horses), as well as to partiality artifacts not seen at training time.
Signal Processing for Implicit Neural Representations
Implicit Neural Representations (INRs) encoding continuous multi-media data via multi-layer perceptrons has shown undebatable promise in various computer vision tasks. Despite many successful applications, editing and processing an INR remains intractable as signals are represented by latent parameters of a neural network. Existing works manipulate such continuous representations via processing on their discretized instance, which breaks down the compactness and continuous nature of INR. In this work, we present a pilot study on the question: how to directly modify an INR without explicit decoding? We answer this question by proposing an implicit neural signal processing network, dubbed INSP-Net, via differential operators on INR. Our key insight is that spatial gradients of neural networks can be computed analytically and are invariant to translation, while mathematically we show that any continuous convolution filter can be uniformly approximated by a linear combination of high-order differential operators. With these two knobs, INSP-Net instantiates the signal processing operator as a weighted composition of computational graphs corresponding to the high-order derivatives of INRs, where the weighting parameters can be data-driven learned. Based on our proposed INSP-Net, we further build the first Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) that implicitly runs on INRs, named INSP-ConvNet. Our experiments validate the expressiveness of INSP-Net and INSP-ConvNet in fitting low-level image and geometry processing kernels (e.g. blurring, deblurring, denoising, inpainting, and smoothening) as well as for high-level tasks on implicit fields such as image classification.
Geometric and Learning-based Mesh Denoising: A Comprehensive Survey
Mesh denoising is a fundamental problem in digital geometry processing. It seeks to remove surface noise, while preserving surface intrinsic signals as accurately as possible. While the traditional wisdom has been built upon specialized priors to smooth surfaces, learning-based approaches are making their debut with great success in generalization and automation. In this work, we provide a comprehensive review of the advances in mesh denoising, containing both traditional geometric approaches and recent learning-based methods. First, to familiarize readers with the denoising tasks, we summarize four common issues in mesh denoising. We then provide two categorizations of the existing denoising methods. Furthermore, three important categories, including optimization-, filter-, and data-driven-based techniques, are introduced and analyzed in detail, respectively. Both qualitative and quantitative comparisons are illustrated, to demonstrate the effectiveness of the state-of-the-art denoising methods. Finally, potential directions of future work are pointed out to solve the common problems of these approaches. A mesh denoising benchmark is also built in this work, and future researchers will easily and conveniently evaluate their methods with the state-of-the-art approaches.
PCDNF: Revisiting Learning-based Point Cloud Denoising via Joint Normal Filtering
Recovering high quality surfaces from noisy point clouds, known as point cloud denoising, is a fundamental yet challenging problem in geometry processing. Most of the existing methods either directly denoise the noisy input or filter raw normals followed by updating point positions. Motivated by the essential interplay between point cloud denoising and normal filtering, we revisit point cloud denoising from a multitask perspective, and propose an end-to-end network, named PCDNF, to denoise point clouds via joint normal filtering. In particular, we introduce an auxiliary normal filtering task to help the overall network remove noise more effectively while preserving geometric features more accurately. In addition to the overall architecture, our network has two novel modules. On one hand, to improve noise removal performance, we design a shape-aware selector to construct the latent tangent space representation of the specific point by comprehensively considering the learned point and normal features and geometry priors. On the other hand, point features are more suitable for describing geometric details, and normal features are more conducive for representing geometric structures (e.g., sharp edges and corners). Combining point and normal features allows us to overcome their weaknesses. Thus, we design a feature refinement module to fuse point and normal features for better recovering geometric information. Extensive evaluations, comparisons, and ablation studies demonstrate that the proposed method outperforms state-of-the-arts for both point cloud denoising and normal filtering.
A Rotation-Strain Method to Model Surfaces using Plasticity
Modeling arbitrarily large deformations of surfaces smoothly embedded in three-dimensional space is challenging. The difficulties come from two aspects: the existing geometry processing or forward simulation methods penalize the difference between the current status and the rest configuration to maintain the initial shape, which will lead to sharp spikes or wiggles for large deformations; the co-dimensional nature of the problem makes it more complicated because the deformed surface has to locally satisfy compatibility conditions on fundamental forms to guarantee a feasible solution exists. To address these two challenges, we propose a rotation-strain method to modify the fundamental forms in a compatible way, and model the large deformation of surface meshes smoothly using plasticity. The user prescribes the positions of a few vertices, and our method finds a smooth strain and rotation field under which the surface meets the target positions. We demonstrate several examples whereby triangle meshes are smoothly deformed to large strains while meeting user constraints.
Generalized Spectral Coarsening
Many computational algorithms applied to geometry operate on discrete representations of shape. It is sometimes necessary to first simplify, or coarsen, representations found in modern datasets for practicable or expedited processing. The utility of a coarsening algorithm depends on both, the choice of representation as well as the specific processing algorithm or operator. e.g. simulation using the Finite Element Method, calculating Betti numbers, etc. We propose a novel method that can coarsen triangle meshes, tetrahedral meshes and simplicial complexes. Our method allows controllable preservation of salient features from the high-resolution geometry and can therefore be customized to different applications.   Salient properties are typically captured by local shape descriptors via linear differential operators -- variants of Laplacians. Eigenvectors of their discretized matrices yield a useful spectral domain for geometry processing (akin to the famous Fourier spectrum which uses eigenfunctions of the derivative operator). Existing methods for spectrum-preserving coarsening use zero-dimensional discretizations of Laplacian operators (defined on vertices). We propose a generalized spectral coarsening method that considers multiple Laplacian operators defined in different dimensionalities in tandem. Our simple algorithm greedily decides the order of contractions of simplices based on a quality function per simplex. The quality function quantifies the error due to removal of that simplex on a chosen band within the spectrum of the coarsened geometry.
Metric Optimization in Penner Coordinates
Many parametrization and mapping-related problems in geometry processing can be viewed as metric optimization problems, i.e., computing a metric minimizing a functional and satisfying a set of constraints, such as flatness.   Penner coordinates are global coordinates on the space of metrics on meshes with a fixed vertex set and topology, but varying connectivity, making it homeomorphic to the Euclidean space of dimension equal to the number of edges in the mesh, without any additional constraints imposed, and reducing to logarithms of edge lengths when restricted to a fixed connectivity. These coordinates play an important role in the theory of discrete conformal maps, enabling recent development of highly robust algorithms with convergence and solution existence guarantees for computing such maps. We demonstrate how Penner coordinates can be used to solve a general class of problems involving metrics, including optimization and interpolation, while retaining the key guarantees available for conformal maps.
Spectral Maps for Learning on Subgraphs
In graph learning, maps between graphs and their subgraphs frequently arise. For instance, when coarsening or rewiring operations are present along the pipeline, one needs to keep track of the corresponding nodes between the original and modified graphs. Classically, these maps are represented as binary node-to-node correspondence matrices and used as-is to transfer node-wise features between the graphs. In this paper, we argue that simply changing this map representation can bring notable benefits to graph learning tasks. Drawing inspiration from recent progress in geometry processing, we introduce a spectral representation for maps that is easy to integrate into existing graph learning models. This spectral representation is a compact and straightforward plug-in replacement and is robust to topological changes of the graphs. Remarkably, the representation exhibits structural properties that make it interpretable, drawing an analogy with recent results on smooth manifolds. We demonstrate the benefits of incorporating spectral maps in graph learning pipelines, addressing scenarios where a node-to-node map is not well defined, or in the absence of exact isomorphism. Our approach bears practical benefits in knowledge distillation and hierarchical learning, where we show comparable or improved performance at a fraction of the computational cost.
VectorAdam for Rotation Equivariant Geometry Optimization
The Adam optimization algorithm has proven remarkably effective for optimization problems across machine learning and even traditional tasks in geometry processing. At the same time, the development of equivariant methods, which preserve their output under the action of rotation or some other transformation, has proven to be important for geometry problems across these domains. In this work, we observe that Adam $-$ when treated as a function that maps initial conditions to optimized results $-$ is not rotation equivariant for vector-valued parameters due to per-coordinate moment updates. This leads to significant artifacts and biases in practice. We propose to resolve this deficiency with VectorAdam, a simple modification which makes Adam rotation-equivariant by accounting for the vector structure of optimization variables. We demonstrate this approach on problems in machine learning and traditional geometric optimization, showing that equivariant VectorAdam resolves the artifacts and biases of traditional Adam when applied to vector-valued data, with equivalent or even improved rates of convergence.
Approximate Convex Decomposition for 3D Meshes with Collision-Aware Concavity and Tree Search
Approximate convex decomposition aims to decompose a 3D shape into a set of almost convex components, whose convex hulls can then be used to represent the input shape. It thus enables efficient geometry processing algorithms specifically designed for convex shapes and has been widely used in game engines, physics simulations, and animation. While prior works can capture the global structure of input shapes, they may fail to preserve fine-grained details (e.g., filling a toaster's slots), which are critical for retaining the functionality of objects in interactive environments. In this paper, we propose a novel method that addresses the limitations of existing approaches from three perspectives: (a) We introduce a novel collision-aware concavity metric that examines the distance between a shape and its convex hull from both the boundary and the interior. The proposed concavity preserves collision conditions and is more robust to detect various approximation errors. (b) We decompose shapes by directly cutting meshes with 3D planes. It ensures generated convex hulls are intersection-free and avoids voxelization errors. (c) Instead of using a one-step greedy strategy, we propose employing a multi-step tree search to determine the cutting planes, which leads to a globally better solution and avoids unnecessary cuttings. Through extensive evaluation on a large-scale articulated object dataset, we show that our method generates decompositions closer to the original shape with fewer components. It thus supports delicate and efficient object interaction in downstream applications. We will release our implementation to facilitate future research.
A direct geometry processing cartilage generation method using segmented bone models from datasets with poor cartilage visibility
We present a method to generate subject-specific cartilage for the hip joint. Given bone geometry, our approach is agnostic to image modality, creates conforming interfaces, and is well suited for finite element analysis. We demonstrate our method on ten hip joints showing anatomical shape consistency and well-behaved stress patterns. Our method is fast and may assist in large-scale biomechanical population studies of the hip joint when manual segmentation or training data is not feasible.
Local Decomposition of Hexahedral Singular Nodes into Singular Curves
Hexahedral (hex) meshing is a long studied topic in geometry processing with many fascinating and challenging associated problems. Hex meshes vary in complexity from structured to unstructured depending on application or domain of interest. Fully structured meshes require that all interior mesh edges are adjacent to exactly four hexes. Edges not satisfying this criteria are considered singular and indicate an unstructured hex mesh. Singular edges join together into singular curves that either form closed cycles, end on the mesh boundary, or end at a singular node, a complex junction of more than two singular curves. While all hex meshes with singularities are unstructured, those with more complex singular nodes tend to have more distorted elements and smaller scaled Jacobian values. In this work, we study the topology of singular nodes. We show that all eight of the most common singular nodes are decomposable into just singular curves. We further show that all singular nodes, regardless of edge valence, are locally decomposable. Finally we demonstrate these decompositions on hex meshes, thereby decreasing their distortion and converting all singular nodes into singular curves. With this decomposition, the enigmatic complexity of 3D singular nodes becomes effectively 2D.
