NAVI: Category-Agnostic Image Collections with High-Quality 3D Shape and Pose Annotations
Recent advances in neural reconstruction enable high-quality 3D object reconstruction from casually captured image collections. Current techniques mostly analyze their progress on relatively simple image collections where Structure-from-Motion (SfM) techniques can provide ground-truth (GT) camera poses. We note that SfM techniques tend to fail on in-the-wild image collections such as image search results with varying backgrounds and illuminations. To enable systematic research progress on 3D reconstruction from casual image captures, we propose NAVI: a new dataset of category-agnostic image collections of objects with high-quality 3D scans along with per-image 2D-3D alignments providing near-perfect GT camera parameters. These 2D-3D alignments allow us to extract accurate derivative annotations such as dense pixel correspondences, depth and segmentation maps. We demonstrate the use of NAVI image collections on different problem settings and show that NAVI enables more thorough evaluations that were not possible with existing datasets. We believe NAVI is beneficial for systematic research progress on 3D reconstruction and correspondence estimation. Project page: https://navidataset.github.io
Yes, we CANN: Constrained Approximate Nearest Neighbors for local feature-based visual localization
Large-scale visual localization systems continue to rely on 3D point clouds built from image collections using structure-from-motion. While the 3D points in these models are represented using local image features, directly matching a query image's local features against the point cloud is challenging due to the scale of the nearest-neighbor search problem. Many recent approaches to visual localization have thus proposed a hybrid method, where first a global (per image) embedding is used to retrieve a small subset of database images, and local features of the query are matched only against those. It seems to have become common belief that global embeddings are critical for said image-retrieval in visual localization, despite the significant downside of having to compute two feature types for each query image. In this paper, we take a step back from this assumption and propose Constrained Approximate Nearest Neighbors (CANN), a joint solution of k-nearest-neighbors across both the geometry and appearance space using only local features. We first derive the theoretical foundation for k-nearest-neighbor retrieval across multiple metrics and then showcase how CANN improves visual localization. Our experiments on public localization benchmarks demonstrate that our method significantly outperforms both state-of-the-art global feature-based retrieval and approaches using local feature aggregation schemes. Moreover, it is an order of magnitude faster in both index and query time than feature aggregation schemes for these datasets. Code will be released.
3D reconstruction using Structure for Motion
We are working towards 3D reconstruction of indoor spaces using a pair of HDR cameras in a stereo vision configuration mounted on an indoor mobile floor robot that captures various textures and spatial features as 2D images and this data is simultaneously utilized as a feed to our algorithm which will allow us to visualize the depth map.
Self-supervised Interest Point Detection and Description for Fisheye and Perspective Images
Keypoint detection and matching is a fundamental task in many computer vision problems, from shape reconstruction, to structure from motion, to AR/VR applications and robotics. It is a well-studied problem with remarkable successes such as SIFT, and more recent deep learning approaches. While great robustness is exhibited by these techniques with respect to noise, illumination variation, and rigid motion transformations, less attention has been placed on image distortion sensitivity. In this work, we focus on the case when this is caused by the geometry of the cameras used for image acquisition, and consider the keypoint detection and matching problem between the hybrid scenario of a fisheye and a projective image. We build on a state-of-the-art approach and derive a self-supervised procedure that enables training an interest point detector and descriptor network. We also collected two new datasets for additional training and testing in this unexplored scenario, and we demonstrate that current approaches are suboptimal because they are designed to work in traditional projective conditions, while the proposed approach turns out to be the most effective.
FlowCam: Training Generalizable 3D Radiance Fields without Camera Poses via Pixel-Aligned Scene Flow
Reconstruction of 3D neural fields from posed images has emerged as a promising method for self-supervised representation learning. The key challenge preventing the deployment of these 3D scene learners on large-scale video data is their dependence on precise camera poses from structure-from-motion, which is prohibitively expensive to run at scale. We propose a method that jointly reconstructs camera poses and 3D neural scene representations online and in a single forward pass. We estimate poses by first lifting frame-to-frame optical flow to 3D scene flow via differentiable rendering, preserving locality and shift-equivariance of the image processing backbone. SE(3) camera pose estimation is then performed via a weighted least-squares fit to the scene flow field. This formulation enables us to jointly supervise pose estimation and a generalizable neural scene representation via re-rendering the input video, and thus, train end-to-end and fully self-supervised on real-world video datasets. We demonstrate that our method performs robustly on diverse, real-world video, notably on sequences traditionally challenging to optimization-based pose estimation techniques.
SIDAR: Synthetic Image Dataset for Alignment & Restoration
Image alignment and image restoration are classical computer vision tasks. However, there is still a lack of datasets that provide enough data to train and evaluate end-to-end deep learning models. Obtaining ground-truth data for image alignment requires sophisticated structure-from-motion methods or optical flow systems that often do not provide enough data variance, i.e., typically providing a high number of image correspondences, while only introducing few changes of scenery within the underlying image sequences. Alternative approaches utilize random perspective distortions on existing image data. However, this only provides trivial distortions, lacking the complexity and variance of real-world scenarios. Instead, our proposed data augmentation helps to overcome the issue of data scarcity by using 3D rendering: images are added as textures onto a plane, then varying lighting conditions, shadows, and occlusions are added to the scene. The scene is rendered from multiple viewpoints, generating perspective distortions more consistent with real-world scenarios, with homographies closely resembling those of camera projections rather than randomized homographies. For each scene, we provide a sequence of distorted images with corresponding occlusion masks, homographies, and ground-truth labels. The resulting dataset can serve as a training and evaluation set for a multitude of tasks involving image alignment and artifact removal, such as deep homography estimation, dense image matching, 2D bundle adjustment, inpainting, shadow removal, denoising, content retrieval, and background subtraction. Our data generation pipeline is customizable and can be applied to any existing dataset, serving as a data augmentation to further improve the feature learning of any existing method.
Eiffel Tower: A Deep-Sea Underwater Dataset for Long-Term Visual Localization
Visual localization plays an important role in the positioning and navigation of robotics systems within previously visited environments. When visits occur over long periods of time, changes in the environment related to seasons or day-night cycles present a major challenge. Under water, the sources of variability are due to other factors such as water conditions or growth of marine organisms. Yet it remains a major obstacle and a much less studied one, partly due to the lack of data. This paper presents a new deep-sea dataset to benchmark underwater long-term visual localization. The dataset is composed of images from four visits to the same hydrothermal vent edifice over the course of five years. Camera poses and a common geometry of the scene were estimated using navigation data and Structure-from-Motion. This serves as a reference when evaluating visual localization techniques. An analysis of the data provides insights about the major changes observed throughout the years. Furthermore, several well-established visual localization methods are evaluated on the dataset, showing there is still room for improvement in underwater long-term visual localization. The data is made publicly available at https://www.seanoe.org/data/00810/92226/.
Rotation Synchronization via Deep Matrix Factorization
In this paper we address the rotation synchronization problem, where the objective is to recover absolute rotations starting from pairwise ones, where the unknowns and the measures are represented as nodes and edges of a graph, respectively. This problem is an essential task for structure from motion and simultaneous localization and mapping. We focus on the formulation of synchronization via neural networks, which has only recently begun to be explored in the literature. Inspired by deep matrix completion, we express rotation synchronization in terms of matrix factorization with a deep neural network. Our formulation exhibits implicit regularization properties and, more importantly, is unsupervised, whereas previous deep approaches are supervised. Our experiments show that we achieve comparable accuracy to the closest competitors in most scenes, while working under weaker assumptions.
A Comparative Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) 3D Analysis of Camera Poses from HoloLens Trajectories and Structure from Motion
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) are trained using a set of camera poses and associated images as input to estimate density and color values for each position. The position-dependent density learning is of particular interest for photogrammetry, enabling 3D reconstruction by querying and filtering the NeRF coordinate system based on the object density. While traditional methods like Structure from Motion are commonly used for camera pose calculation in pre-processing for NeRFs, the HoloLens offers an interesting interface for extracting the required input data directly. We present a workflow for high-resolution 3D reconstructions almost directly from HoloLens data using NeRFs. Thereby, different investigations are considered: Internal camera poses from the HoloLens trajectory via a server application, and external camera poses from Structure from Motion, both with an enhanced variant applied through pose refinement. Results show that the internal camera poses lead to NeRF convergence with a PSNR of 25\,dB with a simple rotation around the x-axis and enable a 3D reconstruction. Pose refinement enables comparable quality compared to external camera poses, resulting in improved training process with a PSNR of 27\,dB and a better 3D reconstruction. Overall, NeRF reconstructions outperform the conventional photogrammetric dense reconstruction using Multi-View Stereo in terms of completeness and level of detail.
Fusing Structure from Motion and Simulation-Augmented Pose Regression from Optical Flow for Challenging Indoor Environments
The localization of objects is a crucial task in various applications such as robotics, virtual and augmented reality, and the transportation of goods in warehouses. Recent advances in deep learning have enabled the localization using monocular visual cameras. While structure from motion (SfM) predicts the absolute pose from a point cloud, absolute pose regression (APR) methods learn a semantic understanding of the environment through neural networks. However, both fields face challenges caused by the environment such as motion blur, lighting changes, repetitive patterns, and feature-less structures. This study aims to address these challenges by incorporating additional information and regularizing the absolute pose using relative pose regression (RPR) methods. The optical flow between consecutive images is computed using the Lucas-Kanade algorithm, and the relative pose is predicted using an auxiliary small recurrent convolutional network. The fusion of absolute and relative poses is a complex task due to the mismatch between the global and local coordinate systems. State-of-the-art methods fusing absolute and relative poses use pose graph optimization (PGO) to regularize the absolute pose predictions using relative poses. In this work, we propose recurrent fusion networks to optimally align absolute and relative pose predictions to improve the absolute pose prediction. We evaluate eight different recurrent units and construct a simulation environment to pre-train the APR and RPR networks for better generalized training. Additionally, we record a large database of different scenarios in a challenging large-scale indoor environment that mimics a warehouse with transportation robots. We conduct hyperparameter searches and experiments to show the effectiveness of our recurrent fusion method compared to PGO.
Visual Localization using Imperfect 3D Models from the Internet
Visual localization is a core component in many applications, including augmented reality (AR). Localization algorithms compute the camera pose of a query image w.r.t. a scene representation, which is typically built from images. This often requires capturing and storing large amounts of data, followed by running Structure-from-Motion (SfM) algorithms. An interesting, and underexplored, source of data for building scene representations are 3D models that are readily available on the Internet, e.g., hand-drawn CAD models, 3D models generated from building footprints, or from aerial images. These models allow to perform visual localization right away without the time-consuming scene capturing and model building steps. Yet, it also comes with challenges as the available 3D models are often imperfect reflections of reality. E.g., the models might only have generic or no textures at all, might only provide a simple approximation of the scene geometry, or might be stretched. This paper studies how the imperfections of these models affect localization accuracy. We create a new benchmark for this task and provide a detailed experimental evaluation based on multiple 3D models per scene. We show that 3D models from the Internet show promise as an easy-to-obtain scene representation. At the same time, there is significant room for improvement for visual localization pipelines. To foster research on this interesting and challenging task, we release our benchmark at v-pnk.github.io/cadloc.
Photometric Correction for Infrared Sensors
Infrared thermography has been widely used in several domains to capture and measure temperature distributions across surfaces and objects. This methodology can be further expanded to 3D applications if the spatial distribution of the temperature distribution is available. Structure from Motion (SfM) is a photometric range imaging technique that makes it possible to obtain 3D renderings from a cloud of 2D images. To explore the possibility of 3D reconstruction via SfM from infrared images, this article proposes a photometric correction model for infrared sensors based on temperature constancy. Photometric correction is accomplished by estimating the scene irradiance as the values from the solution to a differential equation for microbolometer pixel excitation with unknown coefficients and initial conditions. The model was integrated into an SfM framework and experimental evaluations demonstrate the contribution of the photometric correction for improving the estimates of both the camera motion and the scene structure. Further, experiments show that the reconstruction quality from the corrected infrared imagery achieves performance on par with state-of-the-art reconstruction using RGB sensors.
DualRefine: Self-Supervised Depth and Pose Estimation Through Iterative Epipolar Sampling and Refinement Toward Equilibrium
Self-supervised multi-frame depth estimation achieves high accuracy by computing matching costs of pixel correspondences between adjacent frames, injecting geometric information into the network. These pixel-correspondence candidates are computed based on the relative pose estimates between the frames. Accurate pose predictions are essential for precise matching cost computation as they influence the epipolar geometry. Furthermore, improved depth estimates can, in turn, be used to align pose estimates.   Inspired by traditional structure-from-motion (SfM) principles, we propose the DualRefine model, which tightly couples depth and pose estimation through a feedback loop. Our novel update pipeline uses a deep equilibrium model framework to iteratively refine depth estimates and a hidden state of feature maps by computing local matching costs based on epipolar geometry. Importantly, we used the refined depth estimates and feature maps to compute pose updates at each step. This update in the pose estimates slowly alters the epipolar geometry during the refinement process. Experimental results on the KITTI dataset demonstrate competitive depth prediction and odometry prediction performance surpassing published self-supervised baselines.
Semantic Validation in Structure from Motion
The Structure from Motion (SfM) challenge in computer vision is the process of recovering the 3D structure of a scene from a series of projective measurements that are calculated from a collection of 2D images, taken from different perspectives. SfM consists of three main steps; feature detection and matching, camera motion estimation, and recovery of 3D structure from estimated intrinsic and extrinsic parameters and features.   A problem encountered in SfM is that scenes lacking texture or with repetitive features can cause erroneous feature matching between frames. Semantic segmentation offers a route to validate and correct SfM models by labelling pixels in the input images with the use of a deep convolutional neural network. The semantic and geometric properties associated with classes in the scene can be taken advantage of to apply prior constraints to each class of object. The SfM pipeline COLMAP and semantic segmentation pipeline DeepLab were used. This, along with planar reconstruction of the dense model, were used to determine erroneous points that may be occluded from the calculated camera position, given the semantic label, and thus prior constraint of the reconstructed plane. Herein, semantic segmentation is integrated into SfM to apply priors on the 3D point cloud, given the object detection in the 2D input images. Additionally, the semantic labels of matched keypoints are compared and inconsistent semantically labelled points discarded. Furthermore, semantic labels on input images are used for the removal of objects associated with motion in the output SfM models. The proposed approach is evaluated on a data-set of 1102 images of a repetitive architecture scene. This project offers a novel method for improved validation of 3D SfM models.
Learning Internal Representations of 3D Transformations from 2D Projected Inputs
When interacting in a three dimensional world, humans must estimate 3D structure from visual inputs projected down to two dimensional retinal images. It has been shown that humans use the persistence of object shape over motion-induced transformations as a cue to resolve depth ambiguity when solving this underconstrained problem. With the aim of understanding how biological vision systems may internally represent 3D transformations, we propose a computational model, based on a generative manifold model, which can be used to infer 3D structure from the motion of 2D points. Our model can also learn representations of the transformations with minimal supervision, providing a proof of concept for how humans may develop internal representations on a developmental or evolutionary time scale. Focused on rotational motion, we show how our model infers depth from moving 2D projected points, learns 3D rotational transformations from 2D training stimuli, and compares to human performance on psychophysical structure-from-motion experiments.
3D Line Mapping Revisited
In contrast to sparse keypoints, a handful of line segments can concisely encode the high-level scene layout, as they often delineate the main structural elements. In addition to offering strong geometric cues, they are also omnipresent in urban landscapes and indoor scenes. Despite their apparent advantages, current line-based reconstruction methods are far behind their point-based counterparts. In this paper we aim to close the gap by introducing LIMAP, a library for 3D line mapping that robustly and efficiently creates 3D line maps from multi-view imagery. This is achieved through revisiting the degeneracy problem of line triangulation, carefully crafted scoring and track building, and exploiting structural priors such as line coincidence, parallelism, and orthogonality. Our code integrates seamlessly with existing point-based Structure-from-Motion methods and can leverage their 3D points to further improve the line reconstruction. Furthermore, as a byproduct, the method is able to recover 3D association graphs between lines and points / vanishing points (VPs). In thorough experiments, we show that LIMAP significantly outperforms existing approaches for 3D line mapping. Our robust 3D line maps also open up new research directions. We show two example applications: visual localization and bundle adjustment, where integrating lines alongside points yields the best results. Code is available at https://github.com/cvg/limap.
TMO: Textured Mesh Acquisition of Objects with a Mobile Device by using Differentiable Rendering
We present a new pipeline for acquiring a textured mesh in the wild with a single smartphone which offers access to images, depth maps, and valid poses. Our method first introduces an RGBD-aided structure from motion, which can yield filtered depth maps and refines camera poses guided by corresponding depth. Then, we adopt the neural implicit surface reconstruction method, which allows for high-quality mesh and develops a new training process for applying a regularization provided by classical multi-view stereo methods. Moreover, we apply a differentiable rendering to fine-tune incomplete texture maps and generate textures which are perceptually closer to the original scene. Our pipeline can be applied to any common objects in the real world without the need for either in-the-lab environments or accurate mask images. We demonstrate results of captured objects with complex shapes and validate our method numerically against existing 3D reconstruction and texture mapping methods.
On the Importance of Accurate Geometry Data for Dense 3D Vision Tasks
Learning-based methods to solve dense 3D vision problems typically train on 3D sensor data. The respectively used principle of measuring distances provides advantages and drawbacks. These are typically not compared nor discussed in the literature due to a lack of multi-modal datasets. Texture-less regions are problematic for structure from motion and stereo, reflective material poses issues for active sensing, and distances for translucent objects are intricate to measure with existing hardware. Training on inaccurate or corrupt data induces model bias and hampers generalisation capabilities. These effects remain unnoticed if the sensor measurement is considered as ground truth during the evaluation. This paper investigates the effect of sensor errors for the dense 3D vision tasks of depth estimation and reconstruction. We rigorously show the significant impact of sensor characteristics on the learned predictions and notice generalisation issues arising from various technologies in everyday household environments. For evaluation, we introduce a carefully designed dataset\footnote{dataset available at https://github.com/Junggy/HAMMER-dataset} comprising measurements from commodity sensors, namely D-ToF, I-ToF, passive/active stereo, and monocular RGB+P. Our study quantifies the considerable sensor noise impact and paves the way to improved dense vision estimates and targeted data fusion.
Seeing Through the Glass: Neural 3D Reconstruction of Object Inside a Transparent Container
In this paper, we define a new problem of recovering the 3D geometry of an object confined in a transparent enclosure. We also propose a novel method for solving this challenging problem. Transparent enclosures pose challenges of multiple light reflections and refractions at the interface between different propagation media e.g. air or glass. These multiple reflections and refractions cause serious image distortions which invalidate the single viewpoint assumption. Hence the 3D geometry of such objects cannot be reliably reconstructed using existing methods, such as traditional structure from motion or modern neural reconstruction methods. We solve this problem by explicitly modeling the scene as two distinct sub-spaces, inside and outside the transparent enclosure. We use an existing neural reconstruction method (NeuS) that implicitly represents the geometry and appearance of the inner subspace. In order to account for complex light interactions, we develop a hybrid rendering strategy that combines volume rendering with ray tracing. We then recover the underlying geometry and appearance of the model by minimizing the difference between the real and hybrid rendered images. We evaluate our method on both synthetic and real data. Experiment results show that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art (SOTA) methods. Codes and data will be available at https://github.com/hirotong/ReNeuS
Progressively Optimized Local Radiance Fields for Robust View Synthesis
We present an algorithm for reconstructing the radiance field of a large-scale scene from a single casually captured video. The task poses two core challenges. First, most existing radiance field reconstruction approaches rely on accurate pre-estimated camera poses from Structure-from-Motion algorithms, which frequently fail on in-the-wild videos. Second, using a single, global radiance field with finite representational capacity does not scale to longer trajectories in an unbounded scene. For handling unknown poses, we jointly estimate the camera poses with radiance field in a progressive manner. We show that progressive optimization significantly improves the robustness of the reconstruction. For handling large unbounded scenes, we dynamically allocate new local radiance fields trained with frames within a temporal window. This further improves robustness (e.g., performs well even under moderate pose drifts) and allows us to scale to large scenes. Our extensive evaluation on the Tanks and Temples dataset and our collected outdoor dataset, Static Hikes, show that our approach compares favorably with the state-of-the-art.
