DORSal: Diffusion for Object-centric Representations of Scenes $\textit{et al.}$
Recent progress in 3D scene understanding enables scalable learning of representations across large datasets of diverse scenes. As a consequence, generalization to unseen scenes and objects, rendering novel views from just a single or a handful of input images, and controllable scene generation that supports editing, is now possible. However, training jointly on a large number of scenes typically compromises rendering quality when compared to single-scene optimized models such as NeRFs. In this paper, we leverage recent progress in diffusion models to equip 3D scene representation learning models with the ability to render high-fidelity novel views, while retaining benefits such as object-level scene editing to a large degree. In particular, we propose DORSal, which adapts a video diffusion architecture for 3D scene generation conditioned on object-centric slot-based representations of scenes. On both complex synthetic multi-object scenes and on the real-world large-scale Street View dataset, we show that DORSal enables scalable neural rendering of 3D scenes with object-level editing and improves upon existing approaches.
Neural Scene Chronology
In this work, we aim to reconstruct a time-varying 3D model, capable of rendering photo-realistic renderings with independent control of viewpoint, illumination, and time, from Internet photos of large-scale landmarks. The core challenges are twofold. First, different types of temporal changes, such as illumination and changes to the underlying scene itself (such as replacing one graffiti artwork with another) are entangled together in the imagery. Second, scene-level temporal changes are often discrete and sporadic over time, rather than continuous. To tackle these problems, we propose a new scene representation equipped with a novel temporal step function encoding method that can model discrete scene-level content changes as piece-wise constant functions over time. Specifically, we represent the scene as a space-time radiance field with a per-image illumination embedding, where temporally-varying scene changes are encoded using a set of learned step functions. To facilitate our task of chronology reconstruction from Internet imagery, we also collect a new dataset of four scenes that exhibit various changes over time. We demonstrate that our method exhibits state-of-the-art view synthesis results on this dataset, while achieving independent control of viewpoint, time, and illumination.
Parametric Implicit Face Representation for Audio-Driven Facial Reenactment
Audio-driven facial reenactment is a crucial technique that has a range of applications in film-making, virtual avatars and video conferences. Existing works either employ explicit intermediate face representations (e.g., 2D facial landmarks or 3D face models) or implicit ones (e.g., Neural Radiance Fields), thus suffering from the trade-offs between interpretability and expressive power, hence between controllability and quality of the results. In this work, we break these trade-offs with our novel parametric implicit face representation and propose a novel audio-driven facial reenactment framework that is both controllable and can generate high-quality talking heads. Specifically, our parametric implicit representation parameterizes the implicit representation with interpretable parameters of 3D face models, thereby taking the best of both explicit and implicit methods. In addition, we propose several new techniques to improve the three components of our framework, including i) incorporating contextual information into the audio-to-expression parameters encoding; ii) using conditional image synthesis to parameterize the implicit representation and implementing it with an innovative tri-plane structure for efficient learning; iii) formulating facial reenactment as a conditional image inpainting problem and proposing a novel data augmentation technique to improve model generalizability. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method can generate more realistic results than previous methods with greater fidelity to the identities and talking styles of speakers.
H-SLAM: Hybrid Direct-Indirect Visual SLAM
The recent success of hybrid methods in monocular odometry has led to many attempts to generalize the performance gains to hybrid monocular SLAM. However, most attempts fall short in several respects, with the most prominent issue being the need for two different map representations (local and global maps), with each requiring different, computationally expensive, and often redundant processes to maintain. Moreover, these maps tend to drift with respect to each other, resulting in contradicting pose and scene estimates, and leading to catastrophic failure. In this paper, we propose a novel approach that makes use of descriptor sharing to generate a single inverse depth scene representation. This representation can be used locally, queried globally to perform loop closure, and has the ability to re-activate previously observed map points after redundant points are marginalized from the local map, eliminating the need for separate and redundant map maintenance processes. The maps generated by our method exhibit no drift between each other, and can be computed at a fraction of the computational cost and memory footprint required by other monocular SLAM systems. Despite the reduced resource requirements, the proposed approach maintains its robustness and accuracy, delivering performance comparable to state-of-the-art SLAM methods (e.g., LDSO, ORB-SLAM3) on the majority of sequences from well-known datasets like EuRoC, KITTI, and TUM VI. The source code is available at: https://github.com/AUBVRL/fslam_ros_docker.
Slot-VAE: Object-Centric Scene Generation with Slot Attention
Slot attention has shown remarkable object-centric representation learning performance in computer vision tasks without requiring any supervision. Despite its object-centric binding ability brought by compositional modelling, as a deterministic module, slot attention lacks the ability to generate novel scenes. In this paper, we propose the Slot-VAE, a generative model that integrates slot attention with the hierarchical VAE framework for object-centric structured scene generation. For each image, the model simultaneously infers a global scene representation to capture high-level scene structure and object-centric slot representations to embed individual object components. During generation, slot representations are generated from the global scene representation to ensure coherent scene structures. Our extensive evaluation of the scene generation ability indicates that Slot-VAE outperforms slot representation-based generative baselines in terms of sample quality and scene structure accuracy.
From NeRFLiX to NeRFLiX++: A General NeRF-Agnostic Restorer Paradigm
Neural radiance fields (NeRF) have shown great success in novel view synthesis. However, recovering high-quality details from real-world scenes is still challenging for the existing NeRF-based approaches, due to the potential imperfect calibration information and scene representation inaccuracy. Even with high-quality training frames, the synthetic novel views produced by NeRF models still suffer from notable rendering artifacts, such as noise and blur. To address this, we propose NeRFLiX, a general NeRF-agnostic restorer paradigm that learns a degradation-driven inter-viewpoint mixer. Specially, we design a NeRF-style degradation modeling approach and construct large-scale training data, enabling the possibility of effectively removing NeRF-native rendering artifacts for deep neural networks. Moreover, beyond the degradation removal, we propose an inter-viewpoint aggregation framework that fuses highly related high-quality training images, pushing the performance of cutting-edge NeRF models to entirely new levels and producing highly photo-realistic synthetic views. Based on this paradigm, we further present NeRFLiX++ with a stronger two-stage NeRF degradation simulator and a faster inter-viewpoint mixer, achieving superior performance with significantly improved computational efficiency. Notably, NeRFLiX++ is capable of restoring photo-realistic ultra-high-resolution outputs from noisy low-resolution NeRF-rendered views. Extensive experiments demonstrate the excellent restoration ability of NeRFLiX++ on various novel view synthesis benchmarks.
Beyond Surface Statistics: Scene Representations in a Latent Diffusion Model
Latent diffusion models (LDMs) exhibit an impressive ability to produce realistic images, yet the inner workings of these models remain mysterious. Even when trained purely on images without explicit depth information, they typically output coherent pictures of 3D scenes. In this work, we investigate a basic interpretability question: does an LDM create and use an internal representation of simple scene geometry? Using linear probes, we find evidence that the internal activations of the LDM encode linear representations of both 3D depth data and a salient-object / background distinction. These representations appear surprisingly early in the denoising process$-$well before a human can easily make sense of the noisy images. Intervention experiments further indicate these representations play a causal role in image synthesis, and may be used for simple high-level editing of an LDM's output.
LU-NeRF: Scene and Pose Estimation by Synchronizing Local Unposed NeRFs
A critical obstacle preventing NeRF models from being deployed broadly in the wild is their reliance on accurate camera poses. Consequently, there is growing interest in extending NeRF models to jointly optimize camera poses and scene representation, which offers an alternative to off-the-shelf SfM pipelines which have well-understood failure modes. Existing approaches for unposed NeRF operate under limited assumptions, such as a prior pose distribution or coarse pose initialization, making them less effective in a general setting. In this work, we propose a novel approach, LU-NeRF, that jointly estimates camera poses and neural radiance fields with relaxed assumptions on pose configuration. Our approach operates in a local-to-global manner, where we first optimize over local subsets of the data, dubbed mini-scenes. LU-NeRF estimates local pose and geometry for this challenging few-shot task. The mini-scene poses are brought into a global reference frame through a robust pose synchronization step, where a final global optimization of pose and scene can be performed. We show our LU-NeRF pipeline outperforms prior attempts at unposed NeRF without making restrictive assumptions on the pose prior. This allows us to operate in the general SE(3) pose setting, unlike the baselines. Our results also indicate our model can be complementary to feature-based SfM pipelines as it compares favorably to COLMAP on low-texture and low-resolution images.
Human 3D Avatar Modeling with Implicit Neural Representation: A Brief Survey
A human 3D avatar is one of the important elements in the metaverse, and the modeling effect directly affects people's visual experience. However, the human body has a complex topology and diverse details, so it is often expensive, time-consuming, and laborious to build a satisfactory model. Recent studies have proposed a novel method, implicit neural representation, which is a continuous representation method and can describe objects with arbitrary topology at arbitrary resolution. Researchers have applied implicit neural representation to human 3D avatar modeling and obtained more excellent results than traditional methods. This paper comprehensively reviews the application of implicit neural representation in human body modeling. First, we introduce three implicit representations of occupancy field, SDF, and NeRF, and make a classification of the literature investigated in this paper. Then the application of implicit modeling methods in the body, hand, and head are compared and analyzed respectively. Finally, we point out the shortcomings of current work and provide available suggestions for researchers.
Explicit Neural Surfaces: Learning Continuous Geometry With Deformation Fields
We introduce Explicit Neural Surfaces (ENS), an efficient surface reconstruction method that learns an explicitly defined continuous surface from multiple views. We use a series of neural deformation fields to progressively transform a continuous input surface to a target shape. By sampling meshes as discrete surface proxies, we train the deformation fields through efficient differentiable rasterization, and attain a mesh-independent and smooth surface representation. By using Laplace-Beltrami eigenfunctions as an intrinsic positional encoding alongside standard extrinsic Fourier features, our approach can capture fine surface details. ENS trains 1 to 2 orders of magnitude faster and can extract meshes of higher quality compared to implicit representations, whilst maintaining competitive surface reconstruction performance and real-time capabilities. Finally, we apply our approach to learn a collection of objects in a single model, and achieve disentangled interpolations between different shapes, their surface details, and textures.
ZIGNeRF: Zero-shot 3D Scene Representation with Invertible Generative Neural Radiance Fields
Generative Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) have demonstrated remarkable proficiency in synthesizing multi-view images by learning the distribution of a set of unposed images. Despite the aptitude of existing generative NeRFs in generating 3D-consistent high-quality random samples within data distribution, the creation of a 3D representation of a singular input image remains a formidable challenge. In this manuscript, we introduce ZIGNeRF, an innovative model that executes zero-shot Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) inversion for the generation of multi-view images from a single out-of-domain image. The model is underpinned by a novel inverter that maps out-of-domain images into the latent code of the generator manifold. Notably, ZIGNeRF is capable of disentangling the object from the background and executing 3D operations such as 360-degree rotation or depth and horizontal translation. The efficacy of our model is validated using multiple real-image datasets: Cats, AFHQ, CelebA, CelebA-HQ, and CompCars.
NICE-SLAM with Adaptive Feature Grids
NICE-SLAM is a dense visual SLAM system that combines the advantages of neural implicit representations and hierarchical grid-based scene representation. However, the hierarchical grid features are densely stored, leading to memory explosion problems when adapting the framework to large scenes. In our project, we present sparse NICE-SLAM, a sparse SLAM system incorporating the idea of Voxel Hashing into NICE-SLAM framework. Instead of initializing feature grids in the whole space, voxel features near the surface are adaptively added and optimized. Experiments demonstrated that compared to NICE-SLAM algorithm, our approach takes much less memory and achieves comparable reconstruction quality on the same datasets. Our implementation is available at https://github.com/zhangganlin/NICE-SLAM-with-Adaptive-Feature-Grids.
Weight-Aware Implicit Geometry Reconstruction with Curvature-Guided Sampling
Neural surface implicit representations offer numerous advantages, including the ability to easily modify topology and surface resolution. However, reconstructing implicit geometry representation with only limited known data is challenging. In this paper, we present an approach that effectively interpolates and extrapolates within training points, generating additional training data to reconstruct a surface with superior qualitative and quantitative results. We also introduce a technique that efficiently calculates differentiable geometric properties, i.e., mean and Gaussian curvatures, to enhance the sampling process during training. Additionally, we propose a weight-aware implicit neural representation that not only streamlines surface extraction but also extend to non-closed surfaces by depicting non-closed areas as locally degenerated patches, thereby mitigating the drawbacks of the previous assumption in implicit neural representations.
NeuroGF: A Neural Representation for Fast Geodesic Distance and Path Queries
Geodesics are essential in many geometry processing applications. However, traditional algorithms for computing geodesic distances and paths on 3D mesh models are often inefficient and slow. This makes them impractical for scenarios that require extensive querying of arbitrary point-to-point geodesics. Although neural implicit representations have emerged as a popular way of representing 3D shape geometries, there is still no research on representing geodesics with deep implicit functions. To bridge this gap, this paper presents the first attempt to represent geodesics on 3D mesh models using neural implicit functions. Specifically, we introduce neural geodesic fields (NeuroGFs), which are learned to represent the all-pairs geodesics of a given mesh. By using NeuroGFs, we can efficiently and accurately answer queries of arbitrary point-to-point geodesic distances and paths, overcoming the limitations of traditional algorithms. Evaluations on common 3D models show that NeuroGFs exhibit exceptional performance in solving the single-source all-destination (SSAD) and point-to-point geodesics, and achieve high accuracy consistently. Moreover, NeuroGFs offer the unique advantage of encoding both 3D geometry and geodesics in a unified representation. Code is made available at https://github.com/keeganhk/NeuroGF/tree/master.
FMapping: Factorized Efficient Neural Field Mapping for Real-Time Dense RGB SLAM
In this paper, we introduce FMapping, an efficient neural field mapping framework that facilitates the continuous estimation of a colorized point cloud map in real-time dense RGB SLAM. To achieve this challenging goal without depth, a hurdle is how to improve efficiency and reduce the mapping uncertainty of the RGB SLAM system. To this end, we first build up a theoretical analysis by decomposing the SLAM system into tracking and mapping parts, and the mapping uncertainty is explicitly defined within the frame of neural representations. Based on the analysis, we then propose an effective factorization scheme for scene representation and introduce a sliding window strategy to reduce the uncertainty for scene reconstruction. Specifically, we leverage the factorized neural field to decompose uncertainty into a lower-dimensional space, which enhances robustness to noise and improves training efficiency. We then propose the sliding window sampler to reduce uncertainty by incorporating coherent geometric cues from observed frames during map initialization to enhance convergence. Our factorized neural mapping approach enjoys some advantages, such as low memory consumption, more efficient computation, and fast convergence during map initialization. Experiments on two benchmark datasets show that our method can update the map of high-fidelity colorized point clouds around 2 seconds in real time while requiring no customized CUDA kernels. Additionally, it utilizes x20 fewer parameters than the most concise neural implicit mapping of prior methods for SLAM, e.g., iMAP [ 31] and around x1000 fewer parameters than the state-of-the-art approach, e.g., NICE-SLAM [ 42]. For more details, please refer to our project homepage: https://vlis2022.github.io/fmap/.
FlowCam: Training Generalizable 3D Radiance Fields without Camera Poses via Pixel-Aligned Scene Flow
Reconstruction of 3D neural fields from posed images has emerged as a promising method for self-supervised representation learning. The key challenge preventing the deployment of these 3D scene learners on large-scale video data is their dependence on precise camera poses from structure-from-motion, which is prohibitively expensive to run at scale. We propose a method that jointly reconstructs camera poses and 3D neural scene representations online and in a single forward pass. We estimate poses by first lifting frame-to-frame optical flow to 3D scene flow via differentiable rendering, preserving locality and shift-equivariance of the image processing backbone. SE(3) camera pose estimation is then performed via a weighted least-squares fit to the scene flow field. This formulation enables us to jointly supervise pose estimation and a generalizable neural scene representation via re-rendering the input video, and thus, train end-to-end and fully self-supervised on real-world video datasets. We demonstrate that our method performs robustly on diverse, real-world video, notably on sequences traditionally challenging to optimization-based pose estimation techniques.
Neural LerPlane Representations for Fast 4D Reconstruction of Deformable Tissues
Reconstructing deformable tissues from endoscopic stereo videos in robotic surgery is crucial for various clinical applications. However, existing methods relying only on implicit representations are computationally expensive and require dozens of hours, which limits further practical applications. To address this challenge, we introduce LerPlane, a novel method for fast and accurate reconstruction of surgical scenes under a single-viewpoint setting. LerPlane treats surgical procedures as 4D volumes and factorizes them into explicit 2D planes of static and dynamic fields, leading to a compact memory footprint and significantly accelerated optimization. The efficient factorization is accomplished by fusing features obtained through linear interpolation of each plane and enables using lightweight neural networks to model surgical scenes. Besides, LerPlane shares static fields, significantly reducing the workload of dynamic tissue modeling. We also propose a novel sample scheme to boost optimization and improve performance in regions with tool occlusion and large motions. Experiments on DaVinci robotic surgery videos demonstrate that LerPlane accelerates optimization by over 100$\times$ while maintaining high quality across various non-rigid deformations, showing significant promise for future intraoperative surgery applications.
FastMESH: Fast Surface Reconstruction by Hexagonal Mesh-based Neural Rendering
Despite the promising results of multi-view reconstruction, the recent neural rendering-based methods, such as implicit surface rendering (IDR) and volume rendering (NeuS), not only incur a heavy computational burden on training but also have the difficulties in disentangling the geometric and appearance. Although having achieved faster training speed than implicit representation and hash coding, the explicit voxel-based method obtains the inferior results on recovering surface. To address these challenges, we propose an effective mesh-based neural rendering approach, named FastMESH, which only samples at the intersection of ray and mesh. A coarse-to-fine scheme is introduced to efficiently extract the initial mesh by space carving. More importantly, we suggest a hexagonal mesh model to preserve surface regularity by constraining the second-order derivatives of vertices, where only low level of positional encoding is engaged for neural rendering. The experiments demonstrate that our approach achieves the state-of-the-art results on both reconstruction and novel view synthesis. Besides, we obtain 10-fold acceleration on training comparing to the implicit representation-based methods.
Generalizable Pose Estimation Using Implicit Scene Representations
6-DoF pose estimation is an essential component of robotic manipulation pipelines. However, it usually suffers from a lack of generalization to new instances and object types. Most widely used methods learn to infer the object pose in a discriminative setup where the model filters useful information to infer the exact pose of the object. While such methods offer accurate poses, the model does not store enough information to generalize to new objects. In this work, we address the generalization capability of pose estimation using models that contain enough information about the object to render it in different poses. We follow the line of work that inverts neural renderers to infer the pose. We propose i-$\sigma$SRN to maximize the information flowing from the input pose to the rendered scene and invert them to infer the pose given an input image. Specifically, we extend Scene Representation Networks (SRNs) by incorporating a separate network for density estimation and introduce a new way of obtaining a weighted scene representation. We investigate several ways of initial pose estimates and losses for the neural renderer. Our final evaluation shows a significant improvement in inference performance and speed compared to existing approaches.
How To Not Train Your Dragon: Training-free Embodied Object Goal Navigation with Semantic Frontiers
Object goal navigation is an important problem in Embodied AI that involves guiding the agent to navigate to an instance of the object category in an unknown environment -- typically an indoor scene. Unfortunately, current state-of-the-art methods for this problem rely heavily on data-driven approaches, \eg, end-to-end reinforcement learning, imitation learning, and others. Moreover, such methods are typically costly to train and difficult to debug, leading to a lack of transferability and explainability. Inspired by recent successes in combining classical and learning methods, we present a modular and training-free solution, which embraces more classic approaches, to tackle the object goal navigation problem. Our method builds a structured scene representation based on the classic visual simultaneous localization and mapping (V-SLAM) framework. We then inject semantics into geometric-based frontier exploration to reason about promising areas to search for a goal object. Our structured scene representation comprises a 2D occupancy map, semantic point cloud, and spatial scene graph.   Our method propagates semantics on the scene graphs based on language priors and scene statistics to introduce semantic knowledge to the geometric frontiers. With injected semantic priors, the agent can reason about the most promising frontier to explore. The proposed pipeline shows strong experimental performance for object goal navigation on the Gibson benchmark dataset, outperforming the previous state-of-the-art. We also perform comprehensive ablation studies to identify the current bottleneck in the object navigation task.
