DORSal: Diffusion for Object-centric Representations of Scenes $\textit{et al.}$
Recent progress in 3D scene understanding enables scalable learning of representations across large datasets of diverse scenes. As a consequence, generalization to unseen scenes and objects, rendering novel views from just a single or a handful of input images, and controllable scene generation that supports editing, is now possible. However, training jointly on a large number of scenes typically compromises rendering quality when compared to single-scene optimized models such as NeRFs. In this paper, we leverage recent progress in diffusion models to equip 3D scene representation learning models with the ability to render high-fidelity novel views, while retaining benefits such as object-level scene editing to a large degree. In particular, we propose DORSal, which adapts a video diffusion architecture for 3D scene generation conditioned on object-centric slot-based representations of scenes. On both complex synthetic multi-object scenes and on the real-world large-scale Street View dataset, we show that DORSal enables scalable neural rendering of 3D scenes with object-level editing and improves upon existing approaches.
Neural Scene Chronology
In this work, we aim to reconstruct a time-varying 3D model, capable of rendering photo-realistic renderings with independent control of viewpoint, illumination, and time, from Internet photos of large-scale landmarks. The core challenges are twofold. First, different types of temporal changes, such as illumination and changes to the underlying scene itself (such as replacing one graffiti artwork with another) are entangled together in the imagery. Second, scene-level temporal changes are often discrete and sporadic over time, rather than continuous. To tackle these problems, we propose a new scene representation equipped with a novel temporal step function encoding method that can model discrete scene-level content changes as piece-wise constant functions over time. Specifically, we represent the scene as a space-time radiance field with a per-image illumination embedding, where temporally-varying scene changes are encoded using a set of learned step functions. To facilitate our task of chronology reconstruction from Internet imagery, we also collect a new dataset of four scenes that exhibit various changes over time. We demonstrate that our method exhibits state-of-the-art view synthesis results on this dataset, while achieving independent control of viewpoint, time, and illumination.
Parametric Implicit Face Representation for Audio-Driven Facial Reenactment
Audio-driven facial reenactment is a crucial technique that has a range of applications in film-making, virtual avatars and video conferences. Existing works either employ explicit intermediate face representations (e.g., 2D facial landmarks or 3D face models) or implicit ones (e.g., Neural Radiance Fields), thus suffering from the trade-offs between interpretability and expressive power, hence between controllability and quality of the results. In this work, we break these trade-offs with our novel parametric implicit face representation and propose a novel audio-driven facial reenactment framework that is both controllable and can generate high-quality talking heads. Specifically, our parametric implicit representation parameterizes the implicit representation with interpretable parameters of 3D face models, thereby taking the best of both explicit and implicit methods. In addition, we propose several new techniques to improve the three components of our framework, including i) incorporating contextual information into the audio-to-expression parameters encoding; ii) using conditional image synthesis to parameterize the implicit representation and implementing it with an innovative tri-plane structure for efficient learning; iii) formulating facial reenactment as a conditional image inpainting problem and proposing a novel data augmentation technique to improve model generalizability. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method can generate more realistic results than previous methods with greater fidelity to the identities and talking styles of speakers.
H-SLAM: Hybrid Direct-Indirect Visual SLAM
The recent success of hybrid methods in monocular odometry has led to many attempts to generalize the performance gains to hybrid monocular SLAM. However, most attempts fall short in several respects, with the most prominent issue being the need for two different map representations (local and global maps), with each requiring different, computationally expensive, and often redundant processes to maintain. Moreover, these maps tend to drift with respect to each other, resulting in contradicting pose and scene estimates, and leading to catastrophic failure. In this paper, we propose a novel approach that makes use of descriptor sharing to generate a single inverse depth scene representation. This representation can be used locally, queried globally to perform loop closure, and has the ability to re-activate previously observed map points after redundant points are marginalized from the local map, eliminating the need for separate and redundant map maintenance processes. The maps generated by our method exhibit no drift between each other, and can be computed at a fraction of the computational cost and memory footprint required by other monocular SLAM systems. Despite the reduced resource requirements, the proposed approach maintains its robustness and accuracy, delivering performance comparable to state-of-the-art SLAM methods (e.g., LDSO, ORB-SLAM3) on the majority of sequences from well-known datasets like EuRoC, KITTI, and TUM VI. The source code is available at: https://github.com/AUBVRL/fslam_ros_docker.
Slot-VAE: Object-Centric Scene Generation with Slot Attention
Slot attention has shown remarkable object-centric representation learning performance in computer vision tasks without requiring any supervision. Despite its object-centric binding ability brought by compositional modelling, as a deterministic module, slot attention lacks the ability to generate novel scenes. In this paper, we propose the Slot-VAE, a generative model that integrates slot attention with the hierarchical VAE framework for object-centric structured scene generation. For each image, the model simultaneously infers a global scene representation to capture high-level scene structure and object-centric slot representations to embed individual object components. During generation, slot representations are generated from the global scene representation to ensure coherent scene structures. Our extensive evaluation of the scene generation ability indicates that Slot-VAE outperforms slot representation-based generative baselines in terms of sample quality and scene structure accuracy.
From NeRFLiX to NeRFLiX++: A General NeRF-Agnostic Restorer Paradigm
Neural radiance fields (NeRF) have shown great success in novel view synthesis. However, recovering high-quality details from real-world scenes is still challenging for the existing NeRF-based approaches, due to the potential imperfect calibration information and scene representation inaccuracy. Even with high-quality training frames, the synthetic novel views produced by NeRF models still suffer from notable rendering artifacts, such as noise and blur. To address this, we propose NeRFLiX, a general NeRF-agnostic restorer paradigm that learns a degradation-driven inter-viewpoint mixer. Specially, we design a NeRF-style degradation modeling approach and construct large-scale training data, enabling the possibility of effectively removing NeRF-native rendering artifacts for deep neural networks. Moreover, beyond the degradation removal, we propose an inter-viewpoint aggregation framework that fuses highly related high-quality training images, pushing the performance of cutting-edge NeRF models to entirely new levels and producing highly photo-realistic synthetic views. Based on this paradigm, we further present NeRFLiX++ with a stronger two-stage NeRF degradation simulator and a faster inter-viewpoint mixer, achieving superior performance with significantly improved computational efficiency. Notably, NeRFLiX++ is capable of restoring photo-realistic ultra-high-resolution outputs from noisy low-resolution NeRF-rendered views. Extensive experiments demonstrate the excellent restoration ability of NeRFLiX++ on various novel view synthesis benchmarks.
Beyond Surface Statistics: Scene Representations in a Latent Diffusion Model
Latent diffusion models (LDMs) exhibit an impressive ability to produce realistic images, yet the inner workings of these models remain mysterious. Even when trained purely on images without explicit depth information, they typically output coherent pictures of 3D scenes. In this work, we investigate a basic interpretability question: does an LDM create and use an internal representation of simple scene geometry? Using linear probes, we find evidence that the internal activations of the LDM encode linear representations of both 3D depth data and a salient-object / background distinction. These representations appear surprisingly early in the denoising process$-$well before a human can easily make sense of the noisy images. Intervention experiments further indicate these representations play a causal role in image synthesis, and may be used for simple high-level editing of an LDM's output.
LU-NeRF: Scene and Pose Estimation by Synchronizing Local Unposed NeRFs
A critical obstacle preventing NeRF models from being deployed broadly in the wild is their reliance on accurate camera poses. Consequently, there is growing interest in extending NeRF models to jointly optimize camera poses and scene representation, which offers an alternative to off-the-shelf SfM pipelines which have well-understood failure modes. Existing approaches for unposed NeRF operate under limited assumptions, such as a prior pose distribution or coarse pose initialization, making them less effective in a general setting. In this work, we propose a novel approach, LU-NeRF, that jointly estimates camera poses and neural radiance fields with relaxed assumptions on pose configuration. Our approach operates in a local-to-global manner, where we first optimize over local subsets of the data, dubbed mini-scenes. LU-NeRF estimates local pose and geometry for this challenging few-shot task. The mini-scene poses are brought into a global reference frame through a robust pose synchronization step, where a final global optimization of pose and scene can be performed. We show our LU-NeRF pipeline outperforms prior attempts at unposed NeRF without making restrictive assumptions on the pose prior. This allows us to operate in the general SE(3) pose setting, unlike the baselines. Our results also indicate our model can be complementary to feature-based SfM pipelines as it compares favorably to COLMAP on low-texture and low-resolution images.
Human 3D Avatar Modeling with Implicit Neural Representation: A Brief Survey
A human 3D avatar is one of the important elements in the metaverse, and the modeling effect directly affects people's visual experience. However, the human body has a complex topology and diverse details, so it is often expensive, time-consuming, and laborious to build a satisfactory model. Recent studies have proposed a novel method, implicit neural representation, which is a continuous representation method and can describe objects with arbitrary topology at arbitrary resolution. Researchers have applied implicit neural representation to human 3D avatar modeling and obtained more excellent results than traditional methods. This paper comprehensively reviews the application of implicit neural representation in human body modeling. First, we introduce three implicit representations of occupancy field, SDF, and NeRF, and make a classification of the literature investigated in this paper. Then the application of implicit modeling methods in the body, hand, and head are compared and analyzed respectively. Finally, we point out the shortcomings of current work and provide available suggestions for researchers.
Explicit Neural Surfaces: Learning Continuous Geometry With Deformation Fields
We introduce Explicit Neural Surfaces (ENS), an efficient surface reconstruction method that learns an explicitly defined continuous surface from multiple views. We use a series of neural deformation fields to progressively transform a continuous input surface to a target shape. By sampling meshes as discrete surface proxies, we train the deformation fields through efficient differentiable rasterization, and attain a mesh-independent and smooth surface representation. By using Laplace-Beltrami eigenfunctions as an intrinsic positional encoding alongside standard extrinsic Fourier features, our approach can capture fine surface details. ENS trains 1 to 2 orders of magnitude faster and can extract meshes of higher quality compared to implicit representations, whilst maintaining competitive surface reconstruction performance and real-time capabilities. Finally, we apply our approach to learn a collection of objects in a single model, and achieve disentangled interpolations between different shapes, their surface details, and textures.
ZIGNeRF: Zero-shot 3D Scene Representation with Invertible Generative Neural Radiance Fields
Generative Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) have demonstrated remarkable proficiency in synthesizing multi-view images by learning the distribution of a set of unposed images. Despite the aptitude of existing generative NeRFs in generating 3D-consistent high-quality random samples within data distribution, the creation of a 3D representation of a singular input image remains a formidable challenge. In this manuscript, we introduce ZIGNeRF, an innovative model that executes zero-shot Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) inversion for the generation of multi-view images from a single out-of-domain image. The model is underpinned by a novel inverter that maps out-of-domain images into the latent code of the generator manifold. Notably, ZIGNeRF is capable of disentangling the object from the background and executing 3D operations such as 360-degree rotation or depth and horizontal translation. The efficacy of our model is validated using multiple real-image datasets: Cats, AFHQ, CelebA, CelebA-HQ, and CompCars.
NICE-SLAM with Adaptive Feature Grids
NICE-SLAM is a dense visual SLAM system that combines the advantages of neural implicit representations and hierarchical grid-based scene representation. However, the hierarchical grid features are densely stored, leading to memory explosion problems when adapting the framework to large scenes. In our project, we present sparse NICE-SLAM, a sparse SLAM system incorporating the idea of Voxel Hashing into NICE-SLAM framework. Instead of initializing feature grids in the whole space, voxel features near the surface are adaptively added and optimized. Experiments demonstrated that compared to NICE-SLAM algorithm, our approach takes much less memory and achieves comparable reconstruction quality on the same datasets. Our implementation is available at https://github.com/zhangganlin/NICE-SLAM-with-Adaptive-Feature-Grids.
Weight-Aware Implicit Geometry Reconstruction with Curvature-Guided Sampling
Neural surface implicit representations offer numerous advantages, including the ability to easily modify topology and surface resolution. However, reconstructing implicit geometry representation with only limited known data is challenging. In this paper, we present an approach that effectively interpolates and extrapolates within training points, generating additional training data to reconstruct a surface with superior qualitative and quantitative results. We also introduce a technique that efficiently calculates differentiable geometric properties, i.e., mean and Gaussian curvatures, to enhance the sampling process during training. Additionally, we propose a weight-aware implicit neural representation that not only streamlines surface extraction but also extend to non-closed surfaces by depicting non-closed areas as locally degenerated patches, thereby mitigating the drawbacks of the previous assumption in implicit neural representations.
NeuroGF: A Neural Representation for Fast Geodesic Distance and Path Queries
Geodesics are essential in many geometry processing applications. However, traditional algorithms for computing geodesic distances and paths on 3D mesh models are often inefficient and slow. This makes them impractical for scenarios that require extensive querying of arbitrary point-to-point geodesics. Although neural implicit representations have emerged as a popular way of representing 3D shape geometries, there is still no research on representing geodesics with deep implicit functions. To bridge this gap, this paper presents the first attempt to represent geodesics on 3D mesh models using neural implicit functions. Specifically, we introduce neural geodesic fields (NeuroGFs), which are learned to represent the all-pairs geodesics of a given mesh. By using NeuroGFs, we can efficiently and accurately answer queries of arbitrary point-to-point geodesic distances and paths, overcoming the limitations of traditional algorithms. Evaluations on common 3D models show that NeuroGFs exhibit exceptional performance in solving the single-source all-destination (SSAD) and point-to-point geodesics, and achieve high accuracy consistently. Moreover, NeuroGFs offer the unique advantage of encoding both 3D geometry and geodesics in a unified representation. Code is made available at https://github.com/keeganhk/NeuroGF/tree/master.
FMapping: Factorized Efficient Neural Field Mapping for Real-Time Dense RGB SLAM
In this paper, we introduce FMapping, an efficient neural field mapping framework that facilitates the continuous estimation of a colorized point cloud map in real-time dense RGB SLAM. To achieve this challenging goal without depth, a hurdle is how to improve efficiency and reduce the mapping uncertainty of the RGB SLAM system. To this end, we first build up a theoretical analysis by decomposing the SLAM system into tracking and mapping parts, and the mapping uncertainty is explicitly defined within the frame of neural representations. Based on the analysis, we then propose an effective factorization scheme for scene representation and introduce a sliding window strategy to reduce the uncertainty for scene reconstruction. Specifically, we leverage the factorized neural field to decompose uncertainty into a lower-dimensional space, which enhances robustness to noise and improves training efficiency. We then propose the sliding window sampler to reduce uncertainty by incorporating coherent geometric cues from observed frames during map initialization to enhance convergence. Our factorized neural mapping approach enjoys some advantages, such as low memory consumption, more efficient computation, and fast convergence during map initialization. Experiments on two benchmark datasets show that our method can update the map of high-fidelity colorized point clouds around 2 seconds in real time while requiring no customized CUDA kernels. Additionally, it utilizes x20 fewer parameters than the most concise neural implicit mapping of prior methods for SLAM, e.g., iMAP [ 31] and around x1000 fewer parameters than the state-of-the-art approach, e.g., NICE-SLAM [ 42]. For more details, please refer to our project homepage: https://vlis2022.github.io/fmap/.
FlowCam: Training Generalizable 3D Radiance Fields without Camera Poses via Pixel-Aligned Scene Flow
Reconstruction of 3D neural fields from posed images has emerged as a promising method for self-supervised representation learning. The key challenge preventing the deployment of these 3D scene learners on large-scale video data is their dependence on precise camera poses from structure-from-motion, which is prohibitively expensive to run at scale. We propose a method that jointly reconstructs camera poses and 3D neural scene representations online and in a single forward pass. We estimate poses by first lifting frame-to-frame optical flow to 3D scene flow via differentiable rendering, preserving locality and shift-equivariance of the image processing backbone. SE(3) camera pose estimation is then performed via a weighted least-squares fit to the scene flow field. This formulation enables us to jointly supervise pose estimation and a generalizable neural scene representation via re-rendering the input video, and thus, train end-to-end and fully self-supervised on real-world video datasets. We demonstrate that our method performs robustly on diverse, real-world video, notably on sequences traditionally challenging to optimization-based pose estimation techniques.
Neural LerPlane Representations for Fast 4D Reconstruction of Deformable Tissues
Reconstructing deformable tissues from endoscopic stereo videos in robotic surgery is crucial for various clinical applications. However, existing methods relying only on implicit representations are computationally expensive and require dozens of hours, which limits further practical applications. To address this challenge, we introduce LerPlane, a novel method for fast and accurate reconstruction of surgical scenes under a single-viewpoint setting. LerPlane treats surgical procedures as 4D volumes and factorizes them into explicit 2D planes of static and dynamic fields, leading to a compact memory footprint and significantly accelerated optimization. The efficient factorization is accomplished by fusing features obtained through linear interpolation of each plane and enables using lightweight neural networks to model surgical scenes. Besides, LerPlane shares static fields, significantly reducing the workload of dynamic tissue modeling. We also propose a novel sample scheme to boost optimization and improve performance in regions with tool occlusion and large motions. Experiments on DaVinci robotic surgery videos demonstrate that LerPlane accelerates optimization by over 100$\times$ while maintaining high quality across various non-rigid deformations, showing significant promise for future intraoperative surgery applications.
FastMESH: Fast Surface Reconstruction by Hexagonal Mesh-based Neural Rendering
Despite the promising results of multi-view reconstruction, the recent neural rendering-based methods, such as implicit surface rendering (IDR) and volume rendering (NeuS), not only incur a heavy computational burden on training but also have the difficulties in disentangling the geometric and appearance. Although having achieved faster training speed than implicit representation and hash coding, the explicit voxel-based method obtains the inferior results on recovering surface. To address these challenges, we propose an effective mesh-based neural rendering approach, named FastMESH, which only samples at the intersection of ray and mesh. A coarse-to-fine scheme is introduced to efficiently extract the initial mesh by space carving. More importantly, we suggest a hexagonal mesh model to preserve surface regularity by constraining the second-order derivatives of vertices, where only low level of positional encoding is engaged for neural rendering. The experiments demonstrate that our approach achieves the state-of-the-art results on both reconstruction and novel view synthesis. Besides, we obtain 10-fold acceleration on training comparing to the implicit representation-based methods.
Generalizable Pose Estimation Using Implicit Scene Representations
6-DoF pose estimation is an essential component of robotic manipulation pipelines. However, it usually suffers from a lack of generalization to new instances and object types. Most widely used methods learn to infer the object pose in a discriminative setup where the model filters useful information to infer the exact pose of the object. While such methods offer accurate poses, the model does not store enough information to generalize to new objects. In this work, we address the generalization capability of pose estimation using models that contain enough information about the object to render it in different poses. We follow the line of work that inverts neural renderers to infer the pose. We propose i-$\sigma$SRN to maximize the information flowing from the input pose to the rendered scene and invert them to infer the pose given an input image. Specifically, we extend Scene Representation Networks (SRNs) by incorporating a separate network for density estimation and introduce a new way of obtaining a weighted scene representation. We investigate several ways of initial pose estimates and losses for the neural renderer. Our final evaluation shows a significant improvement in inference performance and speed compared to existing approaches.
How To Not Train Your Dragon: Training-free Embodied Object Goal Navigation with Semantic Frontiers
Object goal navigation is an important problem in Embodied AI that involves guiding the agent to navigate to an instance of the object category in an unknown environment -- typically an indoor scene. Unfortunately, current state-of-the-art methods for this problem rely heavily on data-driven approaches, \eg, end-to-end reinforcement learning, imitation learning, and others. Moreover, such methods are typically costly to train and difficult to debug, leading to a lack of transferability and explainability. Inspired by recent successes in combining classical and learning methods, we present a modular and training-free solution, which embraces more classic approaches, to tackle the object goal navigation problem. Our method builds a structured scene representation based on the classic visual simultaneous localization and mapping (V-SLAM) framework. We then inject semantics into geometric-based frontier exploration to reason about promising areas to search for a goal object. Our structured scene representation comprises a 2D occupancy map, semantic point cloud, and spatial scene graph.   Our method propagates semantics on the scene graphs based on language priors and scene statistics to introduce semantic knowledge to the geometric frontiers. With injected semantic priors, the agent can reason about the most promising frontier to explore. The proposed pipeline shows strong experimental performance for object goal navigation on the Gibson benchmark dataset, outperforming the previous state-of-the-art. We also perform comprehensive ablation studies to identify the current bottleneck in the object navigation task.
Not wacky vs. definitely wacky: A study of scalar adverbs in pretrained language models
Vector space models of word meaning all share the assumption that words occurring in similar contexts have similar meanings. In such models, words that are similar in their topical associations but differ in their logical force tend to emerge as semantically close, creating well-known challenges for NLP applications that involve logical reasoning. Modern pretrained language models, such as BERT, RoBERTa and GPT-3 hold the promise of performing better on logical tasks than classic static word embeddings. However, reports are mixed about their success. In the current paper, we advance this discussion through a systematic study of scalar adverbs, an under-explored class of words with strong logical force. Using three different tasks, involving both naturalistic social media data and constructed examples, we investigate the extent to which BERT, RoBERTa, GPT-2 and GPT-3 exhibit general, human-like, knowledge of these common words. We ask: 1) Do the models distinguish amongst the three semantic categories of MODALITY, FREQUENCY and DEGREE? 2) Do they have implicit representations of full scales from maximally negative to maximally positive? 3) How do word frequency and contextual factors impact model performance? We find that despite capturing some aspects of logical meaning, the models fall far short of human performance.
A Neural Space-Time Representation for Text-to-Image Personalization
A key aspect of text-to-image personalization methods is the manner in which the target concept is represented within the generative process. This choice greatly affects the visual fidelity, downstream editability, and disk space needed to store the learned concept. In this paper, we explore a new text-conditioning space that is dependent on both the denoising process timestep (time) and the denoising U-Net layers (space) and showcase its compelling properties. A single concept in the space-time representation is composed of hundreds of vectors, one for each combination of time and space, making this space challenging to optimize directly. Instead, we propose to implicitly represent a concept in this space by optimizing a small neural mapper that receives the current time and space parameters and outputs the matching token embedding. In doing so, the entire personalized concept is represented by the parameters of the learned mapper, resulting in a compact, yet expressive, representation. Similarly to other personalization methods, the output of our neural mapper resides in the input space of the text encoder. We observe that one can significantly improve the convergence and visual fidelity of the concept by introducing a textual bypass, where our neural mapper additionally outputs a residual that is added to the output of the text encoder. Finally, we show how one can impose an importance-based ordering over our implicit representation, providing users control over the reconstruction and editability of the learned concept using a single trained model. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach over a range of concepts and prompts, showing our method's ability to generate high-quality and controllable compositions without fine-tuning any parameters of the generative model itself.
InpaintNeRF360: Text-Guided 3D Inpainting on Unbounded Neural Radiance Fields
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) can generate highly realistic novel views. However, editing 3D scenes represented by NeRF across 360-degree views, particularly removing objects while preserving geometric and photometric consistency, remains a challenging problem due to NeRF's implicit scene representation. In this paper, we propose InpaintNeRF360, a unified framework that utilizes natural language instructions as guidance for inpainting NeRF-based 3D scenes.Our approach employs a promptable segmentation model by generating multi-modal prompts from the encoded text for multiview segmentation. We apply depth-space warping to enforce viewing consistency in the segmentations, and further refine the inpainted NeRF model using perceptual priors to ensure visual plausibility. InpaintNeRF360 is capable of simultaneously removing multiple objects or modifying object appearance based on text instructions while synthesizing 3D viewing-consistent and photo-realistic inpainting. Through extensive experiments on both unbounded and frontal-facing scenes trained through NeRF, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach and showcase its potential to enhance the editability of implicit radiance fields.
Integrated Object Deformation and Contact Patch Estimation from Visuo-Tactile Feedback
Reasoning over the interplay between object deformation and force transmission through contact is central to the manipulation of compliant objects. In this paper, we propose Neural Deforming Contact Field (NDCF), a representation that jointly models object deformations and contact patches from visuo-tactile feedback using implicit representations. Representing the object geometry and contact with the environment implicitly allows a single model to predict contact patches of varying complexity. Additionally, learning geometry and contact simultaneously allows us to enforce physical priors, such as ensuring contacts lie on the surface of the object. We propose a neural network architecture to learn a NDCF, and train it using simulated data. We then demonstrate that the learned NDCF transfers directly to the real-world without the need for fine-tuning. We benchmark our proposed approach against a baseline representing geometry and contact patches with point clouds. We find that NDCF performs better on simulated data and in transfer to the real-world.
Neural Functional Transformers
The recent success of neural networks as implicit representation of data has driven growing interest in neural functionals: models that can process other neural networks as input by operating directly over their weight spaces. Nevertheless, constructing expressive and efficient neural functional architectures that can handle high-dimensional weight-space objects remains challenging. This paper uses the attention mechanism to define a novel set of permutation equivariant weight-space layers and composes them into deep equivariant models called neural functional Transformers (NFTs). NFTs respect weight-space permutation symmetries while incorporating the advantages of attention, which have exhibited remarkable success across multiple domains. In experiments processing the weights of feedforward MLPs and CNNs, we find that NFTs match or exceed the performance of prior weight-space methods. We also leverage NFTs to develop Inr2Array, a novel method for computing permutation invariant latent representations from the weights of implicit neural representations (INRs). Our proposed method improves INR classification accuracy by up to $+17\%$ over existing methods. We provide an implementation of our layers at https://github.com/AllanYangZhou/nfn.
Contextualising Implicit Representations for Semantic Tasks
Prior works have demonstrated that implicit representations trained only for reconstruction tasks typically generate encodings that are not useful for semantic tasks. In this work, we propose a method that contextualises the encodings of implicit representations, enabling their use in downstream tasks (e.g. semantic segmentation), without requiring access to the original training data or encoding network. Using an implicit representation trained for a reconstruction task alone, our contextualising module takes an encoding trained for reconstruction only and reveals meaningful semantic information that is hidden in the encodings, without compromising the reconstruction performance. With our proposed module, it becomes possible to pre-train implicit representations on larger datasets, improving their reconstruction performance compared to training on only a smaller labelled dataset, whilst maintaining their segmentation performance on the labelled dataset. Importantly, our method allows for future foundation implicit representation models to be fine-tuned on unseen tasks, regardless of encoder or dataset availability.
NeRFuser: Large-Scale Scene Representation by NeRF Fusion
A practical benefit of implicit visual representations like Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) is their memory efficiency: large scenes can be efficiently stored and shared as small neural nets instead of collections of images. However, operating on these implicit visual data structures requires extending classical image-based vision techniques (e.g., registration, blending) from image sets to neural fields. Towards this goal, we propose NeRFuser, a novel architecture for NeRF registration and blending that assumes only access to pre-generated NeRFs, and not the potentially large sets of images used to generate them. We propose registration from re-rendering, a technique to infer the transformation between NeRFs based on images synthesized from individual NeRFs. For blending, we propose sample-based inverse distance weighting to blend visual information at the ray-sample level. We evaluate NeRFuser on public benchmarks and a self-collected object-centric indoor dataset, showing the robustness of our method, including to views that are challenging to render from the individual source NeRFs.
NerfBridge: Bringing Real-time, Online Neural Radiance Field Training to Robotics
This work was presented at the IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation 2023 Workshop on Unconventional Spatial Representations.   Neural radiance fields (NeRFs) are a class of implicit scene representations that model 3D environments from color images. NeRFs are expressive, and can model the complex and multi-scale geometry of real world environments, which potentially makes them a powerful tool for robotics applications. Modern NeRF training libraries can generate a photo-realistic NeRF from a static data set in just a few seconds, but are designed for offline use and require a slow pose optimization pre-computation step.   In this work we propose NerfBridge, an open-source bridge between the Robot Operating System (ROS) and the popular Nerfstudio library for real-time, online training of NeRFs from a stream of images. NerfBridge enables rapid development of research on applications of NeRFs in robotics by providing an extensible interface to the efficient training pipelines and model libraries provided by Nerfstudio. As an example use case we outline a hardware setup that can be used NerfBridge to train a NeRF from images captured by a camera mounted to a quadrotor in both indoor and outdoor environments.   For accompanying video https://youtu.be/EH0SLn-RcDg and code https://github.com/javieryu/nerf_bridge.
Ray-Patch: An Efficient Decoder for Light Field Transformers
In this paper we propose the Ray-Patch decoder, a novel model to efficiently query transformers to decode implicit representations into target views. Our Ray-Patch decoding reduces the computational footprint up to two orders of magnitude compared to previous models, without losing global attention, and hence maintaining specific task metrics. The key idea of our novel decoder is to split the target image into a set of patches, then querying the transformer for each patch to extract a set of feature vectors, which are finally decoded into the target image using convolutional layers. Our experimental results quantify the effectiveness of our method, specifically the notable boost in rendering speed and equal specific task metrics for different baselines and datasets.
AutoRecon: Automated 3D Object Discovery and Reconstruction
A fully automated object reconstruction pipeline is crucial for digital content creation. While the area of 3D reconstruction has witnessed profound developments, the removal of background to obtain a clean object model still relies on different forms of manual labor, such as bounding box labeling, mask annotations, and mesh manipulations. In this paper, we propose a novel framework named AutoRecon for the automated discovery and reconstruction of an object from multi-view images. We demonstrate that foreground objects can be robustly located and segmented from SfM point clouds by leveraging self-supervised 2D vision transformer features. Then, we reconstruct decomposed neural scene representations with dense supervision provided by the decomposed point clouds, resulting in accurate object reconstruction and segmentation. Experiments on the DTU, BlendedMVS and CO3D-V2 datasets demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of AutoRecon.
Bridging the Domain Gap: Self-Supervised 3D Scene Understanding with Foundation Models
Foundation models have made significant strides in 2D and language tasks such as image segmentation, object detection, and visual-language understanding. Nevertheless, their potential to enhance 3D scene representation learning remains largely untapped due to the domain gap. In this paper, we propose an innovative methodology Bridge3D to address this gap, pre-training 3D models using features, semantic masks, and captions sourced from foundation models. Specifically, our approach utilizes semantic masks from these models to guide the masking and reconstruction process in the masked autoencoder. This strategy enables the network to concentrate more on foreground objects, thereby enhancing 3D representation learning. Additionally, we bridge the 3D-text gap at the scene level by harnessing image captioning foundation models. To further facilitate knowledge distillation from well-learned 2D and text representations to the 3D model, we introduce a novel method that employs foundation models to generate highly accurate object-level masks and semantic text information at the object level. Our approach notably outshines state-of-the-art methods in 3D object detection and semantic segmentation tasks. For instance, on the ScanNet dataset, our method surpasses the previous state-of-the-art method, PiMAE, by a significant margin of 5.3%.
Implicit Neural Networks with Fourier-Feature Inputs for Free-breathing Cardiac MRI Reconstruction
In this paper, we propose an approach for cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), which aims to reconstruct a real-time video of a beating heart from continuous highly under-sampled measurements. This task is challenging since the object to be reconstructed (the heart) is continuously changing during signal acquisition. To address this challenge, we represent the beating heart with an implicit neural network and fit the network so that the representation of the heart is consistent with the measurements. The network in the form of a multi-layer perceptron with Fourier-feature inputs acts as an effective signal prior and enables adjusting the regularization strength in both the spatial and temporal dimensions of the signal. We examine the proposed approach for 2D free-breathing cardiac real-time MRI in different operating regimes, i.e., for different image resolutions, slice thicknesses, and acquisition lengths. Our method achieves reconstruction quality on par with or slightly better than state-of-the-art untrained convolutional neural networks and superior image quality compared to a recent method that fits an implicit representation directly to Fourier-domain measurements. However, this comes at a higher computational cost. Our approach does not require any additional patient data or biosensors including electrocardiography, making it potentially applicable in a wide range of clinical scenarios.
HumanRF: High-Fidelity Neural Radiance Fields for Humans in Motion
Representing human performance at high-fidelity is an essential building block in diverse applications, such as film production, computer games or videoconferencing. To close the gap to production-level quality, we introduce HumanRF, a 4D dynamic neural scene representation that captures full-body appearance in motion from multi-view video input, and enables playback from novel, unseen viewpoints. Our novel representation acts as a dynamic video encoding that captures fine details at high compression rates by factorizing space-time into a temporal matrix-vector decomposition. This allows us to obtain temporally coherent reconstructions of human actors for long sequences, while representing high-resolution details even in the context of challenging motion. While most research focuses on synthesizing at resolutions of 4MP or lower, we address the challenge of operating at 12MP. To this end, we introduce ActorsHQ, a novel multi-view dataset that provides 12MP footage from 160 cameras for 16 sequences with high-fidelity, per-frame mesh reconstructions. We demonstrate challenges that emerge from using such high-resolution data and show that our newly introduced HumanRF effectively leverages this data, making a significant step towards production-level quality novel view synthesis.
View Correspondence Network for Implicit Light Field Representation
We present a novel technique for implicit neural representation of light fields at continuously defined viewpoints with high quality and fidelity. Our implicit neural representation maps 4D coordinates defining two-plane parameterization of the light fields to the corresponding color values. We leverage periodic activations to achieve high expressivity and accurate reconstruction for complex data manifolds while keeping low storage and inference time requirements. However, na\"ively trained non-3D structured networks do not adequately satisfy the multi-view consistency; instead, they perform alpha blending of nearby viewpoints. In contrast, our View Correspondence Network, or VICON, leverages stereo matching, optimization by automatic differentiation with respect to the input space, and multi-view pixel correspondence to provide a novel implicit representation of the light fields faithful to the novel views that are unseen during the training. Experimental results show VICON superior to the state-of-the-art non-3D implicit light field representations both qualitatively and quantitatively. Moreover, our implicit representation captures a larger field of view (FoV), surpassing the extent of the observable scene by the cameras of the ground truth renderings.
Neural Voting Field for Camera-Space 3D Hand Pose Estimation
We present a unified framework for camera-space 3D hand pose estimation from a single RGB image based on 3D implicit representation. As opposed to recent works, most of which first adopt holistic or pixel-level dense regression to obtain relative 3D hand pose and then follow with complex second-stage operations for 3D global root or scale recovery, we propose a novel unified 3D dense regression scheme to estimate camera-space 3D hand pose via dense 3D point-wise voting in camera frustum. Through direct dense modeling in 3D domain inspired by Pixel-aligned Implicit Functions for 3D detailed reconstruction, our proposed Neural Voting Field (NVF) fully models 3D dense local evidence and hand global geometry, helping to alleviate common 2D-to-3D ambiguities. Specifically, for a 3D query point in camera frustum and its pixel-aligned image feature, NVF, represented by a Multi-Layer Perceptron, regresses: (i) its signed distance to the hand surface; (ii) a set of 4D offset vectors (1D voting weight and 3D directional vector to each hand joint). Following a vote-casting scheme, 4D offset vectors from near-surface points are selected to calculate the 3D hand joint coordinates by a weighted average. Experiments demonstrate that NVF outperforms existing state-of-the-art algorithms on FreiHAND dataset for camera-space 3D hand pose estimation. We also adapt NVF to the classic task of root-relative 3D hand pose estimation, for which NVF also obtains state-of-the-art results on HO3D dataset.
HashCC: Lightweight Method to Improve the Quality of the Camera-less NeRF Scene Generation
Neural Radiance Fields has become a prominent method of scene generation via view synthesis. A critical requirement for the original algorithm to learn meaningful scene representation is camera pose information for each image in a data set. Current approaches try to circumnavigate this assumption with moderate success, by learning approximate camera positions alongside learning neural representations of a scene. This requires complicated camera models, causing a long and complicated training process, or results in a lack of texture and sharp details in rendered scenes. In this work we introduce Hash Color Correction (HashCC) -- a lightweight method for improving Neural Radiance Fields rendered image quality, applicable also in situations where camera positions for a given set of images are unknown.
General Neural Gauge Fields
The recent advance of neural fields, such as neural radiance fields, has significantly pushed the boundary of scene representation learning. Aiming to boost the computation efficiency and rendering quality of 3D scenes, a popular line of research maps the 3D coordinate system to another measuring system, e.g., 2D manifolds and hash tables, for modeling neural fields. The conversion of coordinate systems can be typically dubbed as gauge transformation, which is usually a pre-defined mapping function, e.g., orthogonal projection or spatial hash function. This begs a question: can we directly learn a desired gauge transformation along with the neural field in an end-to-end manner? In this work, we extend this problem to a general paradigm with a taxonomy of discrete & continuous cases, and develop an end-to-end learning framework to jointly optimize the gauge transformation and neural fields. To counter the problem that the learning of gauge transformations can collapse easily, we derive a general regularization mechanism from the principle of information conservation during the gauge transformation. To circumvent the high computation cost in gauge learning with regularization, we directly derive an information-invariant gauge transformation which allows to preserve scene information inherently and yield superior performance.
Single-Shot Implicit Morphable Faces with Consistent Texture Parameterization
There is a growing demand for the accessible creation of high-quality 3D avatars that are animatable and customizable. Although 3D morphable models provide intuitive control for editing and animation, and robustness for single-view face reconstruction, they cannot easily capture geometric and appearance details. Methods based on neural implicit representations, such as signed distance functions (SDF) or neural radiance fields, approach photo-realism, but are difficult to animate and do not generalize well to unseen data. To tackle this problem, we propose a novel method for constructing implicit 3D morphable face models that are both generalizable and intuitive for editing. Trained from a collection of high-quality 3D scans, our face model is parameterized by geometry, expression, and texture latent codes with a learned SDF and explicit UV texture parameterization. Once trained, we can reconstruct an avatar from a single in-the-wild image by leveraging the learned prior to project the image into the latent space of our model. Our implicit morphable face models can be used to render an avatar from novel views, animate facial expressions by modifying expression codes, and edit textures by directly painting on the learned UV-texture maps. We demonstrate quantitatively and qualitatively that our method improves upon photo-realism, geometry, and expression accuracy compared to state-of-the-art methods.
Cortical analysis of heterogeneous clinical brain MRI scans for large-scale neuroimaging studies
Surface analysis of the cortex is ubiquitous in human neuroimaging with MRI, e.g., for cortical registration, parcellation, or thickness estimation. The convoluted cortical geometry requires isotropic scans (e.g., 1mm MPRAGEs) and good gray-white matter contrast for 3D reconstruction. This precludes the analysis of most brain MRI scans acquired for clinical purposes. Analyzing such scans would enable neuroimaging studies with sample sizes that cannot be achieved with current research datasets, particularly for underrepresented populations and rare diseases. Here we present the first method for cortical reconstruction, registration, parcellation, and thickness estimation for clinical brain MRI scans of any resolution and pulse sequence. The methods has a learning component and a classical optimization module. The former uses domain randomization to train a CNN that predicts an implicit representation of the white matter and pial surfaces (a signed distance function) at 1mm isotropic resolution, independently of the pulse sequence and resolution of the input. The latter uses geometry processing to place the surfaces while accurately satisfying topological and geometric constraints, thus enabling subsequent parcellation and thickness estimation with existing methods. We present results on 5mm axial FLAIR scans from ADNI and on a highly heterogeneous clinical dataset with 5,000 scans. Code and data are publicly available at https://surfer.nmr.mgh.harvard.edu/fswiki/recon-all-clinical
Neural LiDAR Fields for Novel View Synthesis
We present Neural Fields for LiDAR (NFL), a method to optimise a neural field scene representation from LiDAR measurements, with the goal of synthesizing realistic LiDAR scans from novel viewpoints. NFL combines the rendering power of neural fields with a detailed, physically motivated model of the LiDAR sensing process, thus enabling it to accurately reproduce key sensor behaviors like beam divergence, secondary returns, and ray dropping. We evaluate NFL on synthetic and real LiDAR scans and show that it outperforms explicit reconstruct-then-simulate methods as well as other NeRF-style methods on LiDAR novel view synthesis task. Moreover, we show that the improved realism of the synthesized views narrows the domain gap to real scans and translates to better registration and semantic segmentation performance.
Federated Neural Radiance Fields
The ability of neural radiance fields or NeRFs to conduct accurate 3D modelling has motivated application of the technique to scene representation. Previous approaches have mainly followed a centralised learning paradigm, which assumes that all training images are available on one compute node for training. In this paper, we consider training NeRFs in a federated manner, whereby multiple compute nodes, each having acquired a distinct set of observations of the overall scene, learn a common NeRF in parallel. This supports the scenario of cooperatively modelling a scene using multiple agents. Our contribution is the first federated learning algorithm for NeRF, which splits the training effort across multiple compute nodes and obviates the need to pool the images at a central node. A technique based on low-rank decomposition of NeRF layers is introduced to reduce bandwidth consumption to transmit the model parameters for aggregation. Transferring compressed models instead of the raw data also contributes to the privacy of the data collecting agents.
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs): A Review and Some Recent Developments
Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) is a framework that represents a 3D scene in the weights of a fully connected neural network, known as the Multi-Layer Perception(MLP). The method was introduced for the task of novel view synthesis and is able to achieve state-of-the-art photorealistic image renderings from a given continuous viewpoint. NeRFs have become a popular field of research as recent developments have been made that expand the performance and capabilities of the base framework. Recent developments include methods that require less images to train the model for view synthesis as well as methods that are able to generate views from unconstrained and dynamic scene representations.
SGAligner : 3D Scene Alignment with Scene Graphs
Building 3D scene graphs has recently emerged as a topic in scene representation for several embodied AI applications to represent the world in a structured and rich manner. With their increased use in solving downstream tasks (eg, navigation and room rearrangement), can we leverage and recycle them for creating 3D maps of environments, a pivotal step in agent operation? We focus on the fundamental problem of aligning pairs of 3D scene graphs whose overlap can range from zero to partial and can contain arbitrary changes. We propose SGAligner, the first method for aligning pairs of 3D scene graphs that is robust to in-the-wild scenarios (ie, unknown overlap -- if any -- and changes in the environment). We get inspired by multi-modality knowledge graphs and use contrastive learning to learn a joint, multi-modal embedding space. We evaluate on the 3RScan dataset and further showcase that our method can be used for estimating the transformation between pairs of 3D scenes. Since benchmarks for these tasks are missing, we create them on this dataset. The code, benchmark, and trained models are available on the project website.
NeRF-LiDAR: Generating Realistic LiDAR Point Clouds with Neural Radiance Fields
Labeling LiDAR point clouds for training autonomous driving is extremely expensive and difficult. LiDAR simulation aims at generating realistic LiDAR data with labels for training and verifying self-driving algorithms more efficiently. Recently, Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have been proposed for novel view synthesis using implicit reconstruction of 3D scenes. Inspired by this, we present NeRF-LIDAR, a novel LiDAR simulation method that leverages real-world information to generate realistic LIDAR point clouds. Different from existing LiDAR simulators, we use real images and point cloud data collected by self-driving cars to learn the 3D scene representation, point cloud generation and label rendering. We verify the effectiveness of our NeRF-LiDAR by training different 3D segmentation models on the generated LiDAR point clouds. It reveals that the trained models are able to achieve similar accuracy when compared with the same model trained on the real LiDAR data. Besides, the generated data is capable of boosting the accuracy through pre-training which helps reduce the requirements of the real labeled data.
Combining HoloLens with Instant-NeRFs: Advanced Real-Time 3D Mobile Mapping
This work represents a large step into modern ways of fast 3D reconstruction based on RGB camera images. Utilizing a Microsoft HoloLens 2 as a multisensor platform that includes an RGB camera and an inertial measurement unit for SLAM-based camera-pose determination, we train a Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) as a neural scene representation in real-time with the acquired data from the HoloLens. The HoloLens is connected via Wifi to a high-performance PC that is responsible for the training and 3D reconstruction. After the data stream ends, the training is stopped and the 3D reconstruction is initiated, which extracts a point cloud of the scene. With our specialized inference algorithm, five million scene points can be extracted within 1 second. In addition, the point cloud also includes radiometry per point. Our method of 3D reconstruction outperforms grid point sampling with NeRFs by multiple orders of magnitude and can be regarded as a complete real-time 3D reconstruction method in a mobile mapping setup.
Super-NeRF: View-consistent Detail Generation for NeRF super-resolution
The neural radiance field (NeRF) achieved remarkable success in modeling 3D scenes and synthesizing high-fidelity novel views. However, existing NeRF-based methods focus more on the make full use of the image resolution to generate novel views, but less considering the generation of details under the limited input resolution. In analogy to the extensive usage of image super-resolution, NeRF super-resolution is an effective way to generate the high-resolution implicit representation of 3D scenes and holds great potential applications. Up to now, such an important topic is still under-explored. In this paper, we propose a NeRF super-resolution method, named Super-NeRF, to generate high-resolution NeRF from only low-resolution inputs. Given multi-view low-resolution images, Super-NeRF constructs a consistency-controlling super-resolution module to generate view-consistent high-resolution details for NeRF. Specifically, an optimizable latent code is introduced for each low-resolution input image to control the 2D super-resolution images to converge to the view-consistent output. The latent codes of each low-resolution image are optimized synergistically with the target Super-NeRF representation to fully utilize the view consistency constraint inherent in NeRF construction. We verify the effectiveness of Super-NeRF on synthetic, real-world, and AI-generated NeRF datasets. Super-NeRF achieves state-of-the-art NeRF super-resolution performance on high-resolution detail generation and cross-view consistency.
Patch-based 3D Natural Scene Generation from a Single Example
We target a 3D generative model for general natural scenes that are typically unique and intricate. Lacking the necessary volumes of training data, along with the difficulties of having ad hoc designs in presence of varying scene characteristics, renders existing setups intractable. Inspired by classical patch-based image models, we advocate for synthesizing 3D scenes at the patch level, given a single example. At the core of this work lies important algorithmic designs w.r.t the scene representation and generative patch nearest-neighbor module, that address unique challenges arising from lifting classical 2D patch-based framework to 3D generation. These design choices, on a collective level, contribute to a robust, effective, and efficient model that can generate high-quality general natural scenes with both realistic geometric structure and visual appearance, in large quantities and varieties, as demonstrated upon a variety of exemplar scenes.
Unsupervised Style-based Explicit 3D Face Reconstruction from Single Image
Inferring 3D object structures from a single image is an ill-posed task due to depth ambiguity and occlusion. Typical resolutions in the literature include leveraging 2D or 3D ground truth for supervised learning, as well as imposing hand-crafted symmetry priors or using an implicit representation to hallucinate novel viewpoints for unsupervised methods. In this work, we propose a general adversarial learning framework for solving Unsupervised 2D to Explicit 3D Style Transfer (UE3DST). Specifically, we merge two architectures: the unsupervised explicit 3D reconstruction network of Wu et al.\ and the Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) named StarGAN-v2. We experiment across three facial datasets (Basel Face Model, 3DFAW and CelebA-HQ) and show that our solution is able to outperform well established solutions such as DepthNet in 3D reconstruction and Pix2NeRF in conditional style transfer, while we also justify the individual contributions of our model components via ablation. In contrast to the aforementioned baselines, our scheme produces features for explicit 3D rendering, which can be manipulated and utilized in downstream tasks.
Total-Recon: Deformable Scene Reconstruction for Embodied View Synthesis
We explore the task of embodied view synthesis from monocular videos of deformable scenes. Given a minute-long RGBD video of people interacting with their pets, we render the scene from novel camera trajectories derived from in-scene motion of actors: (1) egocentric cameras that simulate the point of view of a target actor and (2) 3rd-person cameras that follow the actor. Building such a system requires reconstructing the root-body and articulated motion of each actor in the scene, as well as a scene representation that supports free-viewpoint synthesis. Longer videos are more likely to capture the scene from diverse viewpoints (which helps reconstruction) but are also more likely to contain larger motions (which complicates reconstruction). To address these challenges, we present Total-Recon, the first method to photorealistically reconstruct deformable scenes from long monocular RGBD videos. Crucially, to scale to long videos, our method hierarchically decomposes the scene motion into the motion of each object, which itself is decomposed into global root-body motion and local articulations. To quantify such "in-the-wild" reconstruction and view synthesis, we collect ground-truth data from a specialized stereo RGBD capture rig for 11 challenging videos, significantly outperforming prior art. Code, videos, and data can be found at https://andrewsonga.github.io/totalrecon .
HOSNeRF: Dynamic Human-Object-Scene Neural Radiance Fields from a Single Video
We introduce HOSNeRF, a novel 360{\deg} free-viewpoint rendering method that reconstructs neural radiance fields for dynamic human-object-scene from a single monocular in-the-wild video. Our method enables pausing the video at any frame and rendering all scene details (dynamic humans, objects, and backgrounds) from arbitrary viewpoints. The first challenge in this task is the complex object motions in human-object interactions, which we tackle by introducing the new object bones into the conventional human skeleton hierarchy to effectively estimate large object deformations in our dynamic human-object model. The second challenge is that humans interact with different objects at different times, for which we introduce two new learnable object state embeddings that can be used as conditions for learning our human-object representation and scene representation, respectively. Extensive experiments show that HOSNeRF significantly outperforms SOTA approaches on two challenging datasets by a large margin of 40% ~ 50% in terms of LPIPS. The code, data, and compelling examples of 360{\deg} free-viewpoint renderings from single videos will be released in https://showlab.github.io/HOSNeRF.
GamutMLP: A Lightweight MLP for Color Loss Recovery
Cameras and image-editing software often process images in the wide-gamut ProPhoto color space, encompassing 90% of all visible colors. However, when images are encoded for sharing, this color-rich representation is transformed and clipped to fit within the small-gamut standard RGB (sRGB) color space, representing only 30% of visible colors. Recovering the lost color information is challenging due to the clipping procedure. Inspired by neural implicit representations for 2D images, we propose a method that optimizes a lightweight multi-layer-perceptron (MLP) model during the gamut reduction step to predict the clipped values. GamutMLP takes approximately 2 seconds to optimize and requires only 23 KB of storage. The small memory footprint allows our GamutMLP model to be saved as metadata in the sRGB image -- the model can be extracted when needed to restore wide-gamut color values. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach for color recovery and compare it with alternative strategies, including pre-trained DNN-based gamut expansion networks and other implicit neural representation methods. As part of this effort, we introduce a new color gamut dataset of 2200 wide-gamut/small-gamut images for training and testing. Our code and dataset can be found on the project website: https://gamut-mlp.github.io.
AutoNeRF: Training Implicit Scene Representations with Autonomous Agents
Implicit representations such as Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have been shown to be very effective at novel view synthesis. However, these models typically require manual and careful human data collection for training. In this paper, we present AutoNeRF, a method to collect data required to train NeRFs using autonomous embodied agents. Our method allows an agent to explore an unseen environment efficiently and use the experience to build an implicit map representation autonomously. We compare the impact of different exploration strategies including handcrafted frontier-based exploration and modular approaches composed of trained high-level planners and classical low-level path followers. We train these models with different reward functions tailored to this problem and evaluate the quality of the learned representations on four different downstream tasks: classical viewpoint rendering, map reconstruction, planning, and pose refinement. Empirical results show that NeRFs can be trained on actively collected data using just a single episode of experience in an unseen environment, and can be used for several downstream robotic tasks, and that modular trained exploration models significantly outperform the classical baselines.
Factored Neural Representation for Scene Understanding
A long-standing goal in scene understanding is to obtain interpretable and editable representations that can be directly constructed from a raw monocular RGB-D video, without requiring specialized hardware setup or priors. The problem is significantly more challenging in the presence of multiple moving and/or deforming objects. Traditional methods have approached the setup with a mix of simplifications, scene priors, pretrained templates, or known deformation models. The advent of neural representations, especially neural implicit representations and radiance fields, opens the possibility of end-to-end optimization to collectively capture geometry, appearance, and object motion. However, current approaches produce global scene encoding, assume multiview capture with limited or no motion in the scenes, and do not facilitate easy manipulation beyond novel view synthesis. In this work, we introduce a factored neural scene representation that can directly be learned from a monocular RGB-D video to produce object-level neural presentations with an explicit encoding of object movement (e.g., rigid trajectory) and/or deformations (e.g., nonrigid movement). We evaluate ours against a set of neural approaches on both synthetic and real data to demonstrate that the representation is efficient, interpretable, and editable (e.g., change object trajectory). The project webpage is available at: $\href{https://yushiangw.github.io/factorednerf/}{\text{link}}$.
Neural Radiance Fields: Past, Present, and Future
The various aspects like modeling and interpreting 3D environments and surroundings have enticed humans to progress their research in 3D Computer Vision, Computer Graphics, and Machine Learning. An attempt made by Mildenhall et al in their paper about NeRFs (Neural Radiance Fields) led to a boom in Computer Graphics, Robotics, Computer Vision, and the possible scope of High-Resolution Low Storage Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality-based 3D models have gained traction from res with more than 500 preprints related to NeRFs published. This paper serves as a bridge for people starting to study these fields by building on the basics of Mathematics, Geometry, Computer Vision, and Computer Graphics to the difficulties encountered in Implicit Representations at the intersection of all these disciplines. This survey provides the history of rendering, Implicit Learning, and NeRFs, the progression of research on NeRFs, and the potential applications and implications of NeRFs in today's world. In doing so, this survey categorizes all the NeRF-related research in terms of the datasets used, objective functions, applications solved, and evaluation criteria for these applications.
Tetra-NeRF: Representing Neural Radiance Fields Using Tetrahedra
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) are a very recent and very popular approach for the problems of novel view synthesis and 3D reconstruction. A popular scene representation used by NeRFs is to combine a uniform, voxel-based subdivision of the scene with an MLP. Based on the observation that a (sparse) point cloud of the scene is often available, this paper proposes to use an adaptive representation based on tetrahedra obtained by the Delaunay triangulation instead of the uniform subdivision or point-based representations. We show that such a representation enables efficient training and leads to state-of-the-art results. Our approach elegantly combines concepts from 3D geometry processing, triangle-based rendering, and modern neural radiance fields. Compared to voxel-based representations, ours provides more detail around parts of the scene likely to be close to the surface. Compared to point-based representations, our approach achieves better performance.
SurfelNeRF: Neural Surfel Radiance Fields for Online Photorealistic Reconstruction of Indoor Scenes
Online reconstructing and rendering of large-scale indoor scenes is a long-standing challenge. SLAM-based methods can reconstruct 3D scene geometry progressively in real time but can not render photorealistic results. While NeRF-based methods produce promising novel view synthesis results, their long offline optimization time and lack of geometric constraints pose challenges to efficiently handling online input. Inspired by the complementary advantages of classical 3D reconstruction and NeRF, we thus investigate marrying explicit geometric representation with NeRF rendering to achieve efficient online reconstruction and high-quality rendering. We introduce SurfelNeRF, a variant of neural radiance field which employs a flexible and scalable neural surfel representation to store geometric attributes and extracted appearance features from input images. We further extend the conventional surfel-based fusion scheme to progressively integrate incoming input frames into the reconstructed global neural scene representation. In addition, we propose a highly-efficient differentiable rasterization scheme for rendering neural surfel radiance fields, which helps SurfelNeRF achieve $10\times$ speedups in training and inference time, respectively. Experimental results show that our method achieves the state-of-the-art 23.82 PSNR and 29.58 PSNR on ScanNet in feedforward inference and per-scene optimization settings, respectively.
Generative modeling of living cells with SO(3)-equivariant implicit neural representations
Data-driven cell tracking and segmentation methods in biomedical imaging require diverse and information-rich training data. In cases where the number of training samples is limited, synthetic computer-generated data sets can be used to improve these methods. This requires the synthesis of cell shapes as well as corresponding microscopy images using generative models. To synthesize realistic living cell shapes, the shape representation used by the generative model should be able to accurately represent fine details and changes in topology, which are common in cells. These requirements are not met by 3D voxel masks, which are restricted in resolution, and polygon meshes, which do not easily model processes like cell growth and mitosis. In this work, we propose to represent living cell shapes as level sets of signed distance functions (SDFs) which are estimated by neural networks. We optimize a fully-connected neural network to provide an implicit representation of the SDF value at any point in a 3D+time domain, conditioned on a learned latent code that is disentangled from the rotation of the cell shape. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach on cells that exhibit rapid deformations (Platynereis dumerilii), cells that grow and divide (C. elegans), and cells that have growing and branching filopodial protrusions (A549 human lung carcinoma cells). A quantitative evaluation using shape features, Hausdorff distance, and Dice similarity coefficients of real and synthetic cell shapes shows that our model can generate topologically plausible complex cell shapes in 3D+time with high similarity to real living cell shapes. Finally, we show how microscopy images of living cells that correspond to our generated cell shapes can be synthesized using an image-to-image model.
Implicit representation priors meet Riemannian geometry for Bayesian robotic grasping
Robotic grasping in highly noisy environments presents complex challenges, especially with limited prior knowledge about the scene. In particular, identifying good grasping poses with Bayesian inference becomes difficult due to two reasons: i) generating data from uninformative priors proves to be inefficient, and ii) the posterior often entails a complex distribution defined on a Riemannian manifold. In this study, we explore the use of implicit representations to construct scene-dependent priors, thereby enabling the application of efficient simulation-based Bayesian inference algorithms for determining successful grasp poses in unstructured environments. Results from both simulation and physical benchmarks showcase the high success rate and promising potential of this approach.
NeRF-Loc: Visual Localization with Conditional Neural Radiance Field
We propose a novel visual re-localization method based on direct matching between the implicit 3D descriptors and the 2D image with transformer. A conditional neural radiance field(NeRF) is chosen as the 3D scene representation in our pipeline, which supports continuous 3D descriptors generation and neural rendering. By unifying the feature matching and the scene coordinate regression to the same framework, our model learns both generalizable knowledge and scene prior respectively during two training stages. Furthermore, to improve the localization robustness when domain gap exists between training and testing phases, we propose an appearance adaptation layer to explicitly align styles between the 3D model and the query image. Experiments show that our method achieves higher localization accuracy than other learning-based approaches on multiple benchmarks. Code is available at \url{https://github.com/JenningsL/nerf-loc}.
Representing Volumetric Videos as Dynamic MLP Maps
This paper introduces a novel representation of volumetric videos for real-time view synthesis of dynamic scenes. Recent advances in neural scene representations demonstrate their remarkable capability to model and render complex static scenes, but extending them to represent dynamic scenes is not straightforward due to their slow rendering speed or high storage cost. To solve this problem, our key idea is to represent the radiance field of each frame as a set of shallow MLP networks whose parameters are stored in 2D grids, called MLP maps, and dynamically predicted by a 2D CNN decoder shared by all frames. Representing 3D scenes with shallow MLPs significantly improves the rendering speed, while dynamically predicting MLP parameters with a shared 2D CNN instead of explicitly storing them leads to low storage cost. Experiments show that the proposed approach achieves state-of-the-art rendering quality on the NHR and ZJU-MoCap datasets, while being efficient for real-time rendering with a speed of 41.7 fps for $512 \times 512$ images on an RTX 3090 GPU. The code is available at https://zju3dv.github.io/mlp_maps/.
Visual Localization using Imperfect 3D Models from the Internet
Visual localization is a core component in many applications, including augmented reality (AR). Localization algorithms compute the camera pose of a query image w.r.t. a scene representation, which is typically built from images. This often requires capturing and storing large amounts of data, followed by running Structure-from-Motion (SfM) algorithms. An interesting, and underexplored, source of data for building scene representations are 3D models that are readily available on the Internet, e.g., hand-drawn CAD models, 3D models generated from building footprints, or from aerial images. These models allow to perform visual localization right away without the time-consuming scene capturing and model building steps. Yet, it also comes with challenges as the available 3D models are often imperfect reflections of reality. E.g., the models might only have generic or no textures at all, might only provide a simple approximation of the scene geometry, or might be stretched. This paper studies how the imperfections of these models affect localization accuracy. We create a new benchmark for this task and provide a detailed experimental evaluation based on multiple 3D models per scene. We show that 3D models from the Internet show promise as an easy-to-obtain scene representation. At the same time, there is significant room for improvement for visual localization pipelines. To foster research on this interesting and challenging task, we release our benchmark at v-pnk.github.io/cadloc.
MRVM-NeRF: Mask-Based Pretraining for Neural Radiance Fields
Most Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) have poor generalization ability, limiting their application when representing multiple scenes by a single model. To ameliorate this problem, existing methods simply condition NeRF models on image features, lacking the global understanding and modeling of the entire 3D scene. Inspired by the significant success of mask-based modeling in other research fields, we propose a masked ray and view modeling method for generalizable NeRF (MRVM-NeRF), the first attempt to incorporate mask-based pretraining into 3D implicit representations. Specifically, considering that the core of NeRFs lies in modeling 3D representations along the rays and across the views, we randomly mask a proportion of sampled points along the ray at fine stage by discarding partial information obtained from multi-viewpoints, targeting at predicting the corresponding features produced in the coarse branch. In this way, the learned prior knowledge of 3D scenes during pretraining helps the model generalize better to novel scenarios after finetuning. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of our proposed MRVM-NeRF under various synthetic and real-world settings, both qualitatively and quantitatively. Our empirical studies reveal the effectiveness of our proposed innovative MRVM which is specifically designed for NeRF models.
NF-Atlas: Multi-Volume Neural Feature Fields for Large Scale LiDAR Mapping
LiDAR Mapping has been a long-standing problem in robotics. Recent progress in neural implicit representation has brought new opportunities to robotic mapping. In this paper, we propose the multi-volume neural feature fields, called NF-Atlas, which bridge the neural feature volumes with pose graph optimization. By regarding the neural feature volume as pose graph nodes and the relative pose between volumes as pose graph edges, the entire neural feature field becomes both locally rigid and globally elastic. Locally, the neural feature volume employs a sparse feature Octree and a small MLP to encode the submap SDF with an option of semantics. Learning the map using this structure allows for end-to-end solving of maximum a posteriori (MAP) based probabilistic mapping. Globally, the map is built volume by volume independently, avoiding catastrophic forgetting when mapping incrementally. Furthermore, when a loop closure occurs, with the elastic pose graph based representation, only updating the origin of neural volumes is required without remapping. Finally, these functionalities of NF-Atlas are validated. Thanks to the sparsity and the optimization based formulation, NF-Atlas shows competitive performance in terms of accuracy, efficiency and memory usage on both simulation and real-world datasets.
Point-SLAM: Dense Neural Point Cloud-based SLAM
We propose a dense neural simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) approach for monocular RGBD input which anchors the features of a neural scene representation in a point cloud that is iteratively generated in an input-dependent data-driven manner. We demonstrate that both tracking and mapping can be performed with the same point-based neural scene representation by minimizing an RGBD-based re-rendering loss. In contrast to recent dense neural SLAM methods which anchor the scene features in a sparse grid, our point-based approach allows dynamically adapting the anchor point density to the information density of the input. This strategy reduces runtime and memory usage in regions with fewer details and dedicates higher point density to resolve fine details. Our approach performs either better or competitive to existing dense neural RGBD SLAM methods in tracking, mapping and rendering accuracy on the Replica, TUM-RGBD and ScanNet datasets. The source code is available at https://github.com/tfy14esa/Point-SLAM.
GANHead: Towards Generative Animatable Neural Head Avatars
To bring digital avatars into people's lives, it is highly demanded to efficiently generate complete, realistic, and animatable head avatars. This task is challenging, and it is difficult for existing methods to satisfy all the requirements at once. To achieve these goals, we propose GANHead (Generative Animatable Neural Head Avatar), a novel generative head model that takes advantages of both the fine-grained control over the explicit expression parameters and the realistic rendering results of implicit representations. Specifically, GANHead represents coarse geometry, fine-gained details and texture via three networks in canonical space to obtain the ability to generate complete and realistic head avatars. To achieve flexible animation, we define the deformation filed by standard linear blend skinning (LBS), with the learned continuous pose and expression bases and LBS weights. This allows the avatars to be directly animated by FLAME parameters and generalize well to unseen poses and expressions. Compared to state-of-the-art (SOTA) methods, GANHead achieves superior performance on head avatar generation and raw scan fitting.
Event-based Camera Tracker by $\nabla$t NeRF
When a camera travels across a 3D world, only a fraction of pixel value changes; an event-based camera observes the change as sparse events. How can we utilize sparse events for efficient recovery of the camera pose? We show that we can recover the camera pose by minimizing the error between sparse events and the temporal gradient of the scene represented as a neural radiance field (NeRF). To enable the computation of the temporal gradient of the scene, we augment NeRF's camera pose as a time function. When the input pose to the NeRF coincides with the actual pose, the output of the temporal gradient of NeRF equals the observed intensity changes on the event's points. Using this principle, we propose an event-based camera pose tracking framework called TeGRA which realizes the pose update by using the sparse event's observation. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first camera pose estimation algorithm using the scene's implicit representation and the sparse intensity change from events.
Beyond NeRF Underwater: Learning Neural Reflectance Fields for True Color Correction of Marine Imagery
Underwater imagery often exhibits distorted coloration as a result of light-water interactions, which complicates the study of benthic environments in marine biology and geography. In this research, we propose an algorithm to restore the true color (albedo) in underwater imagery by jointly learning the effects of the medium and neural scene representations. Our approach models water effects as a combination of light attenuation with distance and backscattered light. The proposed neural scene representation is based on a neural reflectance field model, which learns albedos, normals, and volume densities of the underwater environment. We introduce a logistic regression model to separate water from the scene and apply distinct light physics during training. Our method avoids the need to estimate complex backscatter effects in water by employing several approximations, enhancing sampling efficiency and numerical stability during training. The proposed technique integrates underwater light effects into a volume rendering framework with end-to-end differentiability. Experimental results on both synthetic and real-world data demonstrate that our method effectively restores true color from underwater imagery, outperforming existing approaches in terms of color consistency.
LANe: Lighting-Aware Neural Fields for Compositional Scene Synthesis
Neural fields have recently enjoyed great success in representing and rendering 3D scenes. However, most state-of-the-art implicit representations model static or dynamic scenes as a whole, with minor variations. Existing work on learning disentangled world and object neural fields do not consider the problem of composing objects into different world neural fields in a lighting-aware manner. We present Lighting-Aware Neural Field (LANe) for the compositional synthesis of driving scenes in a physically consistent manner. Specifically, we learn a scene representation that disentangles the static background and transient elements into a world-NeRF and class-specific object-NeRFs to allow compositional synthesis of multiple objects in the scene. Furthermore, we explicitly designed both the world and object models to handle lighting variation, which allows us to compose objects into scenes with spatially varying lighting. This is achieved by constructing a light field of the scene and using it in conjunction with a learned shader to modulate the appearance of the object NeRFs. We demonstrate the performance of our model on a synthetic dataset of diverse lighting conditions rendered with the CARLA simulator, as well as a novel real-world dataset of cars collected at different times of the day. Our approach shows that it outperforms state-of-the-art compositional scene synthesis on the challenging dataset setup, via composing object-NeRFs learned from one scene into an entirely different scene whilst still respecting the lighting variations in the novel scene. For more results, please visit our project website https://lane-composition.github.io/.
HNeRV: A Hybrid Neural Representation for Videos
Implicit neural representations store videos as neural networks and have performed well for various vision tasks such as video compression and denoising. With frame index or positional index as input, implicit representations (NeRV, E-NeRV, \etc) reconstruct video from fixed and content-agnostic embeddings. Such embedding largely limits the regression capacity and internal generalization for video interpolation. In this paper, we propose a Hybrid Neural Representation for Videos (HNeRV), where a learnable encoder generates content-adaptive embeddings, which act as the decoder input. Besides the input embedding, we introduce HNeRV blocks, which ensure model parameters are evenly distributed across the entire network, such that higher layers (layers near the output) can have more capacity to store high-resolution content and video details. With content-adaptive embeddings and re-designed architecture, HNeRV outperforms implicit methods in video regression tasks for both reconstruction quality ($+4.7$ PSNR) and convergence speed ($16\times$ faster), and shows better internal generalization. As a simple and efficient video representation, HNeRV also shows decoding advantages for speed, flexibility, and deployment, compared to traditional codecs~(H.264, H.265) and learning-based compression methods. Finally, we explore the effectiveness of HNeRV on downstream tasks such as video compression and video inpainting. We provide project page at https://haochen-rye.github.io/HNeRV, and Code at https://github.com/haochen-rye/HNeRV
Generative Novel View Synthesis with 3D-Aware Diffusion Models
We present a diffusion-based model for 3D-aware generative novel view synthesis from as few as a single input image. Our model samples from the distribution of possible renderings consistent with the input and, even in the presence of ambiguity, is capable of rendering diverse and plausible novel views. To achieve this, our method makes use of existing 2D diffusion backbones but, crucially, incorporates geometry priors in the form of a 3D feature volume. This latent feature field captures the distribution over possible scene representations and improves our method's ability to generate view-consistent novel renderings. In addition to generating novel views, our method has the ability to autoregressively synthesize 3D-consistent sequences. We demonstrate state-of-the-art results on synthetic renderings and room-scale scenes; we also show compelling results for challenging, real-world objects.
LiDAR-Based 3D Object Detection via Hybrid 2D Semantic Scene Generation
Bird's-Eye View (BEV) features are popular intermediate scene representations shared by the 3D backbone and the detector head in LiDAR-based object detectors. However, little research has been done to investigate how to incorporate additional supervision on the BEV features to improve proposal generation in the detector head, while still balancing the number of powerful 3D layers and efficient 2D network operations. This paper proposes a novel scene representation that encodes both the semantics and geometry of the 3D environment in 2D, which serves as a dense supervision signal for better BEV feature learning. The key idea is to use auxiliary networks to predict a combination of explicit and implicit semantic probabilities by exploiting their complementary properties. Extensive experiments show that our simple yet effective design can be easily integrated into most state-of-the-art 3D object detectors and consistently improves upon baseline models.
FineRecon: Depth-aware Feed-forward Network for Detailed 3D Reconstruction
Recent works on 3D reconstruction from posed images have demonstrated that direct inference of scene-level 3D geometry without iterative optimization is feasible using a deep neural network, showing remarkable promise and high efficiency. However, the reconstructed geometries, typically represented as a 3D truncated signed distance function (TSDF), are often coarse without fine geometric details. To address this problem, we propose three effective solutions for improving the fidelity of inference-based 3D reconstructions. We first present a resolution-agnostic TSDF supervision strategy to provide the network with a more accurate learning signal during training, avoiding the pitfalls of TSDF interpolation seen in previous work. We then introduce a depth guidance strategy using multi-view depth estimates to enhance the scene representation and recover more accurate surfaces. Finally, we develop a novel architecture for the final layers of the network, conditioning the output TSDF prediction on high-resolution image features in addition to coarse voxel features, enabling sharper reconstruction of fine details. Our method produces smooth and highly accurate reconstructions, showing significant improvements across multiple depth and 3D reconstruction metrics.
RePAST: Relative Pose Attention Scene Representation Transformer
The Scene Representation Transformer (SRT) is a recent method to render novel views at interactive rates. Since SRT uses camera poses with respect to an arbitrarily chosen reference camera, it is not invariant to the order of the input views. As a result, SRT is not directly applicable to large-scale scenes where the reference frame would need to be changed regularly. In this work, we propose Relative Pose Attention SRT (RePAST): Instead of fixing a reference frame at the input, we inject pairwise relative camera pose information directly into the attention mechanism of the Transformers. This leads to a model that is by definition invariant to the choice of any global reference frame, while still retaining the full capabilities of the original method. Empirical results show that adding this invariance to the model does not lead to a loss in quality. We believe that this is a step towards applying fully latent transformer-based rendering methods to large-scale scenes.
NeMF: Inverse Volume Rendering with Neural Microflake Field
Recovering the physical attributes of an object's appearance from its images captured under an unknown illumination is challenging yet essential for photo-realistic rendering. Recent approaches adopt the emerging implicit scene representations and have shown impressive results.However, they unanimously adopt a surface-based representation,and hence can not well handle scenes with very complex geometry, translucent object and etc. In this paper, we propose to conduct inverse volume rendering, in contrast to surface-based, by representing a scene using microflake volume, which assumes the space is filled with infinite small flakes and light reflects or scatters at each spatial location according to microflake distributions. We further adopt the coordinate networks to implicitly encode the microflake volume, and develop a differentiable microflake volume renderer to train the network in an end-to-end way in principle.Our NeMF enables effective recovery of appearance attributes for highly complex geometry and scattering object, enables high-quality relighting, material editing, and especially simulates volume rendering effects, such as scattering, which is infeasible for surface-based approaches.
CRN: Camera Radar Net for Accurate, Robust, Efficient 3D Perception
Autonomous driving requires an accurate and fast 3D perception system that includes 3D object detection, tracking, and segmentation. Although recent low-cost camera-based approaches have shown promising results, they are susceptible to poor illumination or bad weather conditions and have a large localization error. Hence, fusing camera with low-cost radar, which provides precise long-range measurement and operates reliably in all environments, is promising but has not yet been thoroughly investigated. In this paper, we propose Camera Radar Net (CRN), a novel camera-radar fusion framework that generates a semantically rich and spatially accurate bird's-eye-view (BEV) feature map for various tasks. To overcome the lack of spatial information in an image, we transform perspective view image features to BEV with the help of sparse but accurate radar points. We further aggregate image and radar feature maps in BEV using multi-modal deformable attention designed to tackle the spatial misalignment between inputs. CRN with real-time setting operates at 20 FPS while achieving comparable performance to LiDAR detectors on nuScenes, and even outperforms at a far distance on 100m setting. Moreover, CRN with offline setting yields 62.4% NDS, 57.5% mAP on nuScenes test set and ranks first among all camera and camera-radar 3D object detectors.
altiro3D: Scene representation from single image and novel view synthesis
We introduce altiro3D, a free extended library developed to represent reality starting from a given original RGB image or flat video. It allows to generate a light-field (or Native) image or video and get a realistic 3D experience. To synthesize N-number of virtual images and add them sequentially into a Quilt collage, we apply MiDaS models for the monocular depth estimation, simple OpenCV and Telea inpainting techniques to map all pixels, and implement a 'Fast' algorithm to handle 3D projection camera and scene transformations along N-viewpoints. We use the degree of depth to move proportionally the pixels, assuming the original image to be at the center of all the viewpoints. altiro3D can also be used with DIBR algorithm to compute intermediate snapshots from a equivalent 'Real (slower)' camera with N-geometric viewpoints, which requires to calibrate a priori several intrinsic and extrinsic camera parameters. We adopt a pixel- and device-based Lookup Table to optimize computing time. The multiple viewpoints and video generated from a single image or frame can be displayed in a free-view LCD display.
Efficient View Synthesis and 3D-based Multi-Frame Denoising with Multiplane Feature Representations
While current multi-frame restoration methods combine information from multiple input images using 2D alignment techniques, recent advances in novel view synthesis are paving the way for a new paradigm relying on volumetric scene representations. In this work, we introduce the first 3D-based multi-frame denoising method that significantly outperforms its 2D-based counterparts with lower computational requirements. Our method extends the multiplane image (MPI) framework for novel view synthesis by introducing a learnable encoder-renderer pair manipulating multiplane representations in feature space. The encoder fuses information across views and operates in a depth-wise manner while the renderer fuses information across depths and operates in a view-wise manner. The two modules are trained end-to-end and learn to separate depths in an unsupervised way, giving rise to Multiplane Feature (MPF) representations. Experiments on the Spaces and Real Forward-Facing datasets as well as on raw burst data validate our approach for view synthesis, multi-frame denoising, and view synthesis under noisy conditions.
AvatarCraft: Transforming Text into Neural Human Avatars with Parameterized Shape and Pose Control
Neural implicit fields are powerful for representing 3D scenes and generating high-quality novel views, but it remains challenging to use such implicit representations for creating a 3D human avatar with a specific identity and artistic style that can be easily animated. Our proposed method, AvatarCraft, addresses this challenge by using diffusion models to guide the learning of geometry and texture for a neural avatar based on a single text prompt. We carefully design the optimization framework of neural implicit fields, including a coarse-to-fine multi-bounding box training strategy, shape regularization, and diffusion-based constraints, to produce high-quality geometry and texture. Additionally, we make the human avatar animatable by deforming the neural implicit field with an explicit warping field that maps the target human mesh to a template human mesh, both represented using parametric human models. This simplifies animation and reshaping of the generated avatar by controlling pose and shape parameters. Extensive experiments on various text descriptions show that AvatarCraft is effective and robust in creating human avatars and rendering novel views, poses, and shapes. Our project page is: \url{https://avatar-craft.github.io/}.
DPF: Learning Dense Prediction Fields with Weak Supervision
Nowadays, many visual scene understanding problems are addressed by dense prediction networks. But pixel-wise dense annotations are very expensive (e.g., for scene parsing) or impossible (e.g., for intrinsic image decomposition), motivating us to leverage cheap point-level weak supervision. However, existing pointly-supervised methods still use the same architecture designed for full supervision. In stark contrast to them, we propose a new paradigm that makes predictions for point coordinate queries, as inspired by the recent success of implicit representations, like distance or radiance fields. As such, the method is named as dense prediction fields (DPFs). DPFs generate expressive intermediate features for continuous sub-pixel locations, thus allowing outputs of an arbitrary resolution. DPFs are naturally compatible with point-level supervision. We showcase the effectiveness of DPFs using two substantially different tasks: high-level semantic parsing and low-level intrinsic image decomposition. In these two cases, supervision comes in the form of single-point semantic category and two-point relative reflectance, respectively. As benchmarked by three large-scale public datasets PASCALContext, ADE20K and IIW, DPFs set new state-of-the-art performance on all of them with significant margins.   Code can be accessed at https://github.com/cxx226/DPF.
Active Implicit Object Reconstruction using Uncertainty-guided Next-Best-View Optimziation
Actively planning sensor views during object reconstruction is essential to autonomous mobile robots. This task is usually performed by evaluating information gain from an explicit uncertainty map. Existing algorithms compare options among a set of preset candidate views and select the next-best-view from them. In contrast to these, we take the emerging implicit representation as the object model and seamlessly combine it with the active reconstruction task. To fully integrate observation information into the model, we propose a supervision method specifically for object-level reconstruction that considers both valid and free space. Additionally, to directly evaluate view information from the implicit object model, we introduce a sample-based uncertainty evaluation method. It samples points on rays directly from the object model and uses variations of implicit function inferences as the uncertainty metrics, with no need for voxel traversal or an additional information map. Leveraging the differentiability of our metrics, it is possible to optimize the next-best-view by maximizing the uncertainty continuously. This does away with the traditionally-used candidate views setting, which may provide sub-optimal results. Experiments in simulations and real-world scenes show that our method effectively improves the reconstruction accuracy and the view-planning efficiency of active reconstruction tasks. The proposed system is going to open source at https://github.com/HITSZ-NRSL/ActiveImplicitRecon.git.
Adaptive Voronoi NeRFs
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) learn to represent a 3D scene from just a set of registered images. Increasing sizes of a scene demands more complex functions, typically represented by neural networks, to capture all details. Training and inference then involves querying the neural network millions of times per image, which becomes impractically slow. Since such complex functions can be replaced by multiple simpler functions to improve speed, we show that a hierarchy of Voronoi diagrams is a suitable choice to partition the scene. By equipping each Voronoi cell with its own NeRF, our approach is able to quickly learn a scene representation. We propose an intuitive partitioning of the space that increases quality gains during training by distributing information evenly among the networks and avoids artifacts through a top-down adaptive refinement. Our framework is agnostic to the underlying NeRF method and easy to implement, which allows it to be applied to various NeRF variants for improved learning and rendering speeds.
DyLiN: Making Light Field Networks Dynamic
Light Field Networks, the re-formulations of radiance fields to oriented rays, are magnitudes faster than their coordinate network counterparts, and provide higher fidelity with respect to representing 3D structures from 2D observations. They would be well suited for generic scene representation and manipulation, but suffer from one problem: they are limited to holistic and static scenes. In this paper, we propose the Dynamic Light Field Network (DyLiN) method that can handle non-rigid deformations, including topological changes. We learn a deformation field from input rays to canonical rays, and lift them into a higher dimensional space to handle discontinuities. We further introduce CoDyLiN, which augments DyLiN with controllable attribute inputs. We train both models via knowledge distillation from pretrained dynamic radiance fields. We evaluated DyLiN using both synthetic and real world datasets that include various non-rigid deformations. DyLiN qualitatively outperformed and quantitatively matched state-of-the-art methods in terms of visual fidelity, while being 25 - 71x computationally faster. We also tested CoDyLiN on attribute annotated data and it surpassed its teacher model. Project page: https://dylin2023.github.io .
AssetField: Assets Mining and Reconfiguration in Ground Feature Plane Representation
Both indoor and outdoor environments are inherently structured and repetitive. Traditional modeling pipelines keep an asset library storing unique object templates, which is both versatile and memory efficient in practice. Inspired by this observation, we propose AssetField, a novel neural scene representation that learns a set of object-aware ground feature planes to represent the scene, where an asset library storing template feature patches can be constructed in an unsupervised manner. Unlike existing methods which require object masks to query spatial points for object editing, our ground feature plane representation offers a natural visualization of the scene in the bird-eye view, allowing a variety of operations (e.g. translation, duplication, deformation) on objects to configure a new scene. With the template feature patches, group editing is enabled for scenes with many recurring items to avoid repetitive work on object individuals. We show that AssetField not only achieves competitive performance for novel-view synthesis but also generates realistic renderings for new scene configurations.
Fantasia3D: Disentangling Geometry and Appearance for High-quality Text-to-3D Content Creation
Automatic 3D content creation has achieved rapid progress recently due to the availability of pre-trained, large language models and image diffusion models, forming the emerging topic of text-to-3D content creation. Existing text-to-3D methods commonly use implicit scene representations, which couple the geometry and appearance via volume rendering and are suboptimal in terms of recovering finer geometries and achieving photorealistic rendering; consequently, they are less effective for generating high-quality 3D assets. In this work, we propose a new method of Fantasia3D for high-quality text-to-3D content creation. Key to Fantasia3D is the disentangled modeling and learning of geometry and appearance. For geometry learning, we rely on a hybrid scene representation, and propose to encode surface normal extracted from the representation as the input of the image diffusion model. For appearance modeling, we introduce the spatially varying bidirectional reflectance distribution function (BRDF) into the text-to-3D task, and learn the surface material for photorealistic rendering of the generated surface. Our disentangled framework is more compatible with popular graphics engines, supporting relighting, editing, and physical simulation of the generated 3D assets. We conduct thorough experiments that show the advantages of our method over existing ones under different text-to-3D task settings. Project page and source codes: https://fantasia3d.github.io/.
Learning Spatial-Temporal Implicit Neural Representations for Event-Guided Video Super-Resolution
Event cameras sense the intensity changes asynchronously and produce event streams with high dynamic range and low latency. This has inspired research endeavors utilizing events to guide the challenging video superresolution (VSR) task. In this paper, we make the first attempt to address a novel problem of achieving VSR at random scales by taking advantages of the high temporal resolution property of events. This is hampered by the difficulties of representing the spatial-temporal information of events when guiding VSR. To this end, we propose a novel framework that incorporates the spatial-temporal interpolation of events to VSR in a unified framework. Our key idea is to learn implicit neural representations from queried spatial-temporal coordinates and features from both RGB frames and events. Our method contains three parts. Specifically, the Spatial-Temporal Fusion (STF) module first learns the 3D features from events and RGB frames. Then, the Temporal Filter (TF) module unlocks more explicit motion information from the events near the queried timestamp and generates the 2D features. Lastly, the SpatialTemporal Implicit Representation (STIR) module recovers the SR frame in arbitrary resolutions from the outputs of these two modules. In addition, we collect a real-world dataset with spatially aligned events and RGB frames. Extensive experiments show that our method significantly surpasses the prior-arts and achieves VSR with random scales, e.g., 6.5. Code and dataset are available at https: //vlis2022.github.io/cvpr23/egvsr.
Persistent Nature: A Generative Model of Unbounded 3D Worlds
Despite increasingly realistic image quality, recent 3D image generative models often operate on 3D volumes of fixed extent with limited camera motions. We investigate the task of unconditionally synthesizing unbounded nature scenes, enabling arbitrarily large camera motion while maintaining a persistent 3D world model. Our scene representation consists of an extendable, planar scene layout grid, which can be rendered from arbitrary camera poses via a 3D decoder and volume rendering, and a panoramic skydome. Based on this representation, we learn a generative world model solely from single-view internet photos. Our method enables simulating long flights through 3D landscapes, while maintaining global scene consistency--for instance, returning to the starting point yields the same view of the scene. Our approach enables scene extrapolation beyond the fixed bounds of current 3D generative models, while also supporting a persistent, camera-independent world representation that stands in contrast to auto-regressive 3D prediction models. Our project page: https://chail.github.io/persistent-nature/.
Transforming Radiance Field with Lipschitz Network for Photorealistic 3D Scene Stylization
Recent advances in 3D scene representation and novel view synthesis have witnessed the rise of Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs). Nevertheless, it is not trivial to exploit NeRF for the photorealistic 3D scene stylization task, which aims to generate visually consistent and photorealistic stylized scenes from novel views. Simply coupling NeRF with photorealistic style transfer (PST) will result in cross-view inconsistency and degradation of stylized view syntheses. Through a thorough analysis, we demonstrate that this non-trivial task can be simplified in a new light: When transforming the appearance representation of a pre-trained NeRF with Lipschitz mapping, the consistency and photorealism across source views will be seamlessly encoded into the syntheses. That motivates us to build a concise and flexible learning framework namely LipRF, which upgrades arbitrary 2D PST methods with Lipschitz mapping tailored for the 3D scene. Technically, LipRF first pre-trains a radiance field to reconstruct the 3D scene, and then emulates the style on each view by 2D PST as the prior to learn a Lipschitz network to stylize the pre-trained appearance. In view of that Lipschitz condition highly impacts the expressivity of the neural network, we devise an adaptive regularization to balance the reconstruction and stylization. A gradual gradient aggregation strategy is further introduced to optimize LipRF in a cost-efficient manner. We conduct extensive experiments to show the high quality and robust performance of LipRF on both photorealistic 3D stylization and object appearance editing.
ENVIDR: Implicit Differentiable Renderer with Neural Environment Lighting
Recent advances in neural rendering have shown great potential for reconstructing scenes from multiview images. However, accurately representing objects with glossy surfaces remains a challenge for existing methods. In this work, we introduce ENVIDR, a rendering and modeling framework for high-quality rendering and reconstruction of surfaces with challenging specular reflections. To achieve this, we first propose a novel neural renderer with decomposed rendering components to learn the interaction between surface and environment lighting. This renderer is trained using existing physically based renderers and is decoupled from actual scene representations. We then propose an SDF-based neural surface model that leverages this learned neural renderer to represent general scenes. Our model additionally synthesizes indirect illuminations caused by inter-reflections from shiny surfaces by marching surface-reflected rays. We demonstrate that our method outperforms state-of-art methods on challenging shiny scenes, providing high-quality rendering of specular reflections while also enabling material editing and scene relighting.
SALAD: Part-Level Latent Diffusion for 3D Shape Generation and Manipulation
We present a cascaded diffusion model based on a part-level implicit 3D representation. Our model achieves state-of-the-art generation quality and also enables part-level shape editing and manipulation without any additional training in conditional setup. Diffusion models have demonstrated impressive capabilities in data generation as well as zero-shot completion and editing via a guided reverse process. Recent research on 3D diffusion models has focused on improving their generation capabilities with various data representations, while the absence of structural information has limited their capability in completion and editing tasks. We thus propose our novel diffusion model using a part-level implicit representation. To effectively learn diffusion with high-dimensional embedding vectors of parts, we propose a cascaded framework, learning diffusion first on a low-dimensional subspace encoding extrinsic parameters of parts and then on the other high-dimensional subspace encoding intrinsic attributes. In the experiments, we demonstrate the outperformance of our method compared with the previous ones both in generation and part-level completion and manipulation tasks.
VAD: Vectorized Scene Representation for Efficient Autonomous Driving
Autonomous driving requires a comprehensive understanding of the surrounding environment for reliable trajectory planning. Previous works rely on dense rasterized scene representation (e.g., agent occupancy and semantic map) to perform planning, which is computationally intensive and misses the instance-level structure information. In this paper, we propose VAD, an end-to-end vectorized paradigm for autonomous driving, which models the driving scene as fully vectorized representation. The proposed vectorized paradigm has two significant advantages. On one hand, VAD exploits the vectorized agent motion and map elements as explicit instance-level planning constraints which effectively improves planning safety. On the other hand, VAD runs much faster than previous end-to-end planning methods by getting rid of computation-intensive rasterized representation and hand-designed post-processing steps. VAD achieves state-of-the-art end-to-end planning performance on the nuScenes dataset, outperforming the previous best method by a large margin (reducing the average collision rate by 48.4%). Besides, VAD greatly improves the inference speed (up to 9.3x), which is critical for the real-world deployment of an autonomous driving system. Code and models will be released for facilitating future research.
Text2Room: Extracting Textured 3D Meshes from 2D Text-to-Image Models
We present Text2Room, a method for generating room-scale textured 3D meshes from a given text prompt as input. To this end, we leverage pre-trained 2D text-to-image models to synthesize a sequence of images from different poses. In order to lift these outputs into a consistent 3D scene representation, we combine monocular depth estimation with a text-conditioned inpainting model. The core idea of our approach is a tailored viewpoint selection such that the content of each image can be fused into a seamless, textured 3D mesh. More specifically, we propose a continuous alignment strategy that iteratively fuses scene frames with the existing geometry to create a seamless mesh. Unlike existing works that focus on generating single objects or zoom-out trajectories from text, our method generates complete 3D scenes with multiple objects and explicit 3D geometry. We evaluate our approach using qualitative and quantitative metrics, demonstrating it as the first method to generate room-scale 3D geometry with compelling textures from only text as input.
Combining high-order metric interpolation and geometry implicitization for curved $r$-adaption
We detail how to use Newton's method for distortion-based curved $r$-adaption to a discrete high-order metric field while matching a target geometry. Specifically, we combine two terms: a distortion measuring the deviation from the target metric; and a penalty term measuring the deviation from the target boundary. For this combination, we consider four ingredients. First, to represent the metric field, we detail a log-Euclidean high-order metric interpolation on a curved (straight-edged) mesh. Second, for this metric interpolation, we detail the first and second derivatives in physical coordinates. Third, to represent the domain boundaries, we propose an implicit representation for 2D and 3D NURBS models. Fourth, for this implicit representation, we obtain the first and second derivatives. The derivatives of the metric interpolation and the implicit representation allow minimizing the objective function with Newton's method. For this second-order minimization, the resulting meshes simultaneously match the curved features of the target metric and boundary. Matching the metric and the geometry using second-order optimization is an unprecedented capability in curved (straight-edged) $r$-adaption. This capability will be critical in global and cavity-based curved (straight-edged) high-order mesh adaption.
NeTO:Neural Reconstruction of Transparent Objects with Self-Occlusion Aware Refraction-Tracing
We present a novel method, called NeTO, for capturing 3D geometry of solid transparent objects from 2D images via volume rendering. Reconstructing transparent objects is a very challenging task, which is ill-suited for general-purpose reconstruction techniques due to the specular light transport phenomena. Although existing refraction-tracing based methods, designed specially for this task, achieve impressive results, they still suffer from unstable optimization and loss of fine details, since the explicit surface representation they adopted is difficult to be optimized, and the self-occlusion problem is ignored for refraction-tracing. In this paper, we propose to leverage implicit Signed Distance Function (SDF) as surface representation, and optimize the SDF field via volume rendering with a self-occlusion aware refractive ray tracing. The implicit representation enables our method to be capable of reconstructing high-quality reconstruction even with a limited set of images, and the self-occlusion aware strategy makes it possible for our method to accurately reconstruct the self-occluded regions. Experiments show that our method achieves faithful reconstruction results and outperforms prior works by a large margin. Visit our project page at \url{https://www.xxlong.site/NeTO/}
Neural Implicit Vision-Language Feature Fields
Recently, groundbreaking results have been presented on open-vocabulary semantic image segmentation. Such methods segment each pixel in an image into arbitrary categories provided at run-time in the form of text prompts, as opposed to a fixed set of classes defined at training time. In this work, we present a zero-shot volumetric open-vocabulary semantic scene segmentation method. Our method builds on the insight that we can fuse image features from a vision-language model into a neural implicit representation. We show that the resulting feature field can be segmented into different classes by assigning points to natural language text prompts. The implicit volumetric representation enables us to segment the scene both in 3D and 2D by rendering feature maps from any given viewpoint of the scene. We show that our method works on noisy real-world data and can run in real-time on live sensor data dynamically adjusting to text prompts. We also present quantitative comparisons on the ScanNet dataset.
NeRF-LOAM: Neural Implicit Representation for Large-Scale Incremental LiDAR Odometry and Mapping
Simultaneously odometry and mapping using LiDAR data is an important task for mobile systems to achieve full autonomy in large-scale environments. However, most existing LiDAR-based methods prioritize tracking quality over reconstruction quality. Although the recently developed neural radiance fields (NeRF) have shown promising advances in implicit reconstruction for indoor environments, the problem of simultaneous odometry and mapping for large-scale scenarios using incremental LiDAR data remains unexplored. To bridge this gap, in this paper, we propose a novel NeRF-based LiDAR odometry and mapping approach, NeRF-LOAM, consisting of three modules neural odometry, neural mapping, and mesh reconstruction. All these modules utilize our proposed neural signed distance function, which separates LiDAR points into ground and non-ground points to reduce Z-axis drift, optimizes odometry and voxel embeddings concurrently, and in the end generates dense smooth mesh maps of the environment. Moreover, this joint optimization allows our NeRF-LOAM to be pre-trained free and exhibit strong generalization abilities when applied to different environments. Extensive evaluations on three publicly available datasets demonstrate that our approach achieves state-of-the-art odometry and mapping performance, as well as a strong generalization in large-scale environments utilizing LiDAR data. Furthermore, we perform multiple ablation studies to validate the effectiveness of our network design. The implementation of our approach will be made available at https://github.com/JunyuanDeng/NeRF-LOAM.
Markerless Motion Capture and Biomechanical Analysis Pipeline
Markerless motion capture using computer vision and human pose estimation (HPE) has the potential to expand access to precise movement analysis. This could greatly benefit rehabilitation by enabling more accurate tracking of outcomes and providing more sensitive tools for research. There are numerous steps between obtaining videos to extracting accurate biomechanical results and limited research to guide many critical design decisions in these pipelines. In this work, we analyze several of these steps including the algorithm used to detect keypoints and the keypoint set, the approach to reconstructing trajectories for biomechanical inverse kinematics and optimizing the IK process. Several features we find important are: 1) using a recent algorithm trained on many datasets that produces a dense set of biomechanically-motivated keypoints, 2) using an implicit representation to reconstruct smooth, anatomically constrained marker trajectories for IK, 3) iteratively optimizing the biomechanical model to match the dense markers, 4) appropriate regularization of the IK process. Our pipeline makes it easy to obtain accurate biomechanical estimates of movement in a rehabilitation hospital.
Fluid Dynamics Network: Topology-Agnostic 4D Reconstruction via Fluid Dynamics Priors
Representing 3D surfaces as level sets of continuous functions over $\mathbb{R}^3$ is the common denominator of neural implicit representations, which recently enabled remarkable progress in geometric deep learning and computer vision tasks. In order to represent 3D motion within this framework, it is often assumed (either explicitly or implicitly) that the transformations which a surface may undergo are homeomorphic: this is not necessarily true, for instance, in the case of fluid dynamics. In order to represent more general classes of deformations, we propose to apply this theoretical framework as regularizers for the optimization of simple 4D implicit functions (such as signed distance fields). We show that our representation is capable of capturing both homeomorphic and topology-changing deformations, while also defining correspondences over the continuously-reconstructed surfaces.
PartNeRF: Generating Part-Aware Editable 3D Shapes without 3D Supervision
Impressive progress in generative models and implicit representations gave rise to methods that can generate 3D shapes of high quality. However, being able to locally control and edit shapes is another essential property that can unlock several content creation applications. Local control can be achieved with part-aware models, but existing methods require 3D supervision and cannot produce textures. In this work, we devise PartNeRF, a novel part-aware generative model for editable 3D shape synthesis that does not require any explicit 3D supervision. Our model generates objects as a set of locally defined NeRFs, augmented with an affine transformation. This enables several editing operations such as applying transformations on parts, mixing parts from different objects etc. To ensure distinct, manipulable parts we enforce a hard assignment of rays to parts that makes sure that the color of each ray is only determined by a single NeRF. As a result, altering one part does not affect the appearance of the others. Evaluations on various ShapeNet categories demonstrate the ability of our model to generate editable 3D objects of improved fidelity, compared to previous part-based generative approaches that require 3D supervision or models relying on NeRFs.
NeRFMeshing: Distilling Neural Radiance Fields into Geometrically-Accurate 3D Meshes
With the introduction of Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs), novel view synthesis has recently made a big leap forward. At the core, NeRF proposes that each 3D point can emit radiance, allowing to conduct view synthesis using differentiable volumetric rendering. While neural radiance fields can accurately represent 3D scenes for computing the image rendering, 3D meshes are still the main scene representation supported by most computer graphics and simulation pipelines, enabling tasks such as real time rendering and physics-based simulations. Obtaining 3D meshes from neural radiance fields still remains an open challenge since NeRFs are optimized for view synthesis, not enforcing an accurate underlying geometry on the radiance field. We thus propose a novel compact and flexible architecture that enables easy 3D surface reconstruction from any NeRF-driven approach. Upon having trained the radiance field, we distill the volumetric 3D representation into a Signed Surface Approximation Network, allowing easy extraction of the 3D mesh and appearance. Our final 3D mesh is physically accurate and can be rendered in real time on an array of devices.
Learning a Room with the Occ-SDF Hybrid: Signed Distance Function Mingled with Occupancy Aids Scene Representation
Implicit neural rendering, which uses signed distance function (SDF) representation with geometric priors (such as depth or surface normal), has led to impressive progress in the surface reconstruction of large-scale scenes. However, applying this method to reconstruct a room-level scene from images may miss structures in low-intensity areas or small and thin objects. We conducted experiments on three datasets to identify limitations of the original color rendering loss and priors-embedded SDF scene representation.   We found that the color rendering loss results in optimization bias against low-intensity areas, causing gradient vanishing and leaving these areas unoptimized. To address this issue, we propose a feature-based color rendering loss that utilizes non-zero feature values to bring back optimization signals. Additionally, the SDF representation can be influenced by objects along a ray path, disrupting the monotonic change of SDF values when a single object is present. To counteract this, we explore using the occupancy representation, which encodes each point separately and is unaffected by objects along a querying ray. Our experimental results demonstrate that the joint forces of the feature-based rendering loss and Occ-SDF hybrid representation scheme can provide high-quality reconstruction results, especially in challenging room-level scenarios. The code would be released.
CoordFill: Efficient High-Resolution Image Inpainting via Parameterized Coordinate Querying
Image inpainting aims to fill the missing hole of the input. It is hard to solve this task efficiently when facing high-resolution images due to two reasons: (1) Large reception field needs to be handled for high-resolution image inpainting. (2) The general encoder and decoder network synthesizes many background pixels synchronously due to the form of the image matrix. In this paper, we try to break the above limitations for the first time thanks to the recent development of continuous implicit representation. In detail, we down-sample and encode the degraded image to produce the spatial-adaptive parameters for each spatial patch via an attentional Fast Fourier Convolution(FFC)-based parameter generation network. Then, we take these parameters as the weights and biases of a series of multi-layer perceptron(MLP), where the input is the encoded continuous coordinates and the output is the synthesized color value. Thanks to the proposed structure, we only encode the high-resolution image in a relatively low resolution for larger reception field capturing. Then, the continuous position encoding will be helpful to synthesize the photo-realistic high-frequency textures by re-sampling the coordinate in a higher resolution. Also, our framework enables us to query the coordinates of missing pixels only in parallel, yielding a more efficient solution than the previous methods. Experiments show that the proposed method achieves real-time performance on the 2048$\times$2048 images using a single GTX 2080 Ti GPU and can handle 4096$\times$4096 images, with much better performance than existing state-of-the-art methods visually and numerically. The code is available at: https://github.com/NiFangBaAGe/CoordFill.
Unsupervised Traffic Scene Generation with Synthetic 3D Scene Graphs
Image synthesis driven by computer graphics achieved recently a remarkable realism, yet synthetic image data generated this way reveals a significant domain gap with respect to real-world data. This is especially true in autonomous driving scenarios, which represent a critical aspect for overcoming utilizing synthetic data for training neural networks. We propose a method based on domain-invariant scene representation to directly synthesize traffic scene imagery without rendering. Specifically, we rely on synthetic scene graphs as our internal representation and introduce an unsupervised neural network architecture for realistic traffic scene synthesis. We enhance synthetic scene graphs with spatial information about the scene and demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach through scene manipulation.
NeRFLiX: High-Quality Neural View Synthesis by Learning a Degradation-Driven Inter-viewpoint MiXer
Neural radiance fields (NeRF) show great success in novel view synthesis. However, in real-world scenes, recovering high-quality details from the source images is still challenging for the existing NeRF-based approaches, due to the potential imperfect calibration information and scene representation inaccuracy. Even with high-quality training frames, the synthetic novel views produced by NeRF models still suffer from notable rendering artifacts, such as noise, blur, etc. Towards to improve the synthesis quality of NeRF-based approaches, we propose NeRFLiX, a general NeRF-agnostic restorer paradigm by learning a degradation-driven inter-viewpoint mixer. Specially, we design a NeRF-style degradation modeling approach and construct large-scale training data, enabling the possibility of effectively removing NeRF-native rendering artifacts for existing deep neural networks. Moreover, beyond the degradation removal, we propose an inter-viewpoint aggregation framework that is able to fuse highly related high-quality training images, pushing the performance of cutting-edge NeRF models to entirely new levels and producing highly photo-realistic synthetic views.
Towards Generalized Robot Assembly through Compliance-Enabled Contact Formations
Contact can be conceptualized as a set of constraints imposed on two bodies that are interacting with one another in some way. The nature of a contact, whether a point, line, or surface, dictates how these bodies are able to move with respect to one another given a force, and a set of contacts can provide either partial or full constraint on a body's motion. Decades of work have explored how to explicitly estimate the location of a contact and its dynamics, e.g., frictional properties, but investigated methods have been computationally expensive and there often exists significant uncertainty in the final calculation. This has affected further advancements in contact-rich tasks that are seemingly simple to humans, such as generalized peg-in-hole insertions. In this work, instead of explicitly estimating the individual contact dynamics between an object and its hole, we approach this problem by investigating compliance-enabled contact formations. More formally, contact formations are defined according to the constraints imposed on an object's available degrees-of-freedom. Rather than estimating individual contact positions, we abstract out this calculation to an implicit representation, allowing the robot to either acquire, maintain, or release constraints on the object during the insertion process, by monitoring forces enacted on the end effector through time. Using a compliant robot, our method is desirable in that we are able to complete industry-relevant insertion tasks of tolerances <0.25mm without prior knowledge of the exact hole location or its orientation. We showcase our method on more generalized insertion tasks, such as commercially available non-cylindrical objects and open world plug tasks.
CROSSFIRE: Camera Relocalization On Self-Supervised Features from an Implicit Representation
Beyond novel view synthesis, Neural Radiance Fields are useful for applications that interact with the real world. In this paper, we use them as an implicit map of a given scene and propose a camera relocalization algorithm tailored for this representation. The proposed method enables to compute in real-time the precise position of a device using a single RGB camera, during its navigation. In contrast with previous work, we do not rely on pose regression or photometric alignment but rather use dense local features obtained through volumetric rendering which are specialized on the scene with a self-supervised objective. As a result, our algorithm is more accurate than competitors, able to operate in dynamic outdoor environments with changing lightning conditions and can be readily integrated in any volumetric neural renderer.
CLIP-FO3D: Learning Free Open-world 3D Scene Representations from 2D Dense CLIP
Training a 3D scene understanding model requires complicated human annotations, which are laborious to collect and result in a model only encoding close-set object semantics. In contrast, vision-language pre-training models (e.g., CLIP) have shown remarkable open-world reasoning properties. To this end, we propose directly transferring CLIP's feature space to 3D scene understanding model without any form of supervision. We first modify CLIP's input and forwarding process so that it can be adapted to extract dense pixel features for 3D scene contents. We then project multi-view image features to the point cloud and train a 3D scene understanding model with feature distillation. Without any annotations or additional training, our model achieves promising annotation-free semantic segmentation results on open-vocabulary semantics and long-tailed concepts. Besides, serving as a cross-modal pre-training framework, our method can be used to improve data efficiency during fine-tuning. Our model outperforms previous SOTA methods in various zero-shot and data-efficient learning benchmarks. Most importantly, our model successfully inherits CLIP's rich-structured knowledge, allowing 3D scene understanding models to recognize not only object concepts but also open-world semantics.
Graph parameters, implicit representations and factorial properties
How to efficiently represent a graph in computer memory is a fundamental data structuring question. In the present paper, we address this question from a combinatorial point of view. A representation of an $n$-vertex graph $G$ is called implicit if it assigns to each vertex of $G$ a binary code of length $O(\log n)$ so that the adjacency of two vertices is a function of their codes. A necessary condition for a hereditary class $X$ of graphs to admit an implicit representation is that $X$ has at most factorial speed of growth. This condition, however, is not sufficient, as was recently shown in [Hatami & Hatami, FOCS 2022]. Several sufficient conditions for the existence of implicit representations deal with boundedness of some parameters, such as degeneracy or clique-width. In the present paper, we analyze more graph parameters and prove a number of new results related to implicit representation and factorial properties.
Neural Vector Fields: Implicit Representation by Explicit Learning
Deep neural networks (DNNs) are widely applied for nowadays 3D surface reconstruction tasks and such methods can be further divided into two categories, which respectively warp templates explicitly by moving vertices or represent 3D surfaces implicitly as signed or unsigned distance functions. Taking advantage of both advanced explicit learning process and powerful representation ability of implicit functions, we propose a novel 3D representation method, Neural Vector Fields (NVF). It not only adopts the explicit learning process to manipulate meshes directly, but also leverages the implicit representation of unsigned distance functions (UDFs) to break the barriers in resolution and topology. Specifically, our method first predicts the displacements from queries towards the surface and models the shapes as \textit{Vector Fields}. Rather than relying on network differentiation to obtain direction fields as most existing UDF-based methods, the produced vector fields encode the distance and direction fields both and mitigate the ambiguity at "ridge" points, such that the calculation of direction fields is straightforward and differentiation-free. The differentiation-free characteristic enables us to further learn a shape codebook via Vector Quantization, which encodes the cross-object priors, accelerates the training procedure, and boosts model generalization on cross-category reconstruction. The extensive experiments on surface reconstruction benchmarks indicate that our method outperforms those state-of-the-art methods in different evaluation scenarios including watertight vs non-watertight shapes, category-specific vs category-agnostic reconstruction, category-unseen reconstruction, and cross-domain reconstruction. Our code is released at https://github.com/Wi-sc/NVF.
Nerflets: Local Radiance Fields for Efficient Structure-Aware 3D Scene Representation from 2D Supervision
We address efficient and structure-aware 3D scene representation from images. Nerflets are our key contribution -- a set of local neural radiance fields that together represent a scene. Each nerflet maintains its own spatial position, orientation, and extent, within which it contributes to panoptic, density, and radiance reconstructions. By leveraging only photometric and inferred panoptic image supervision, we can directly and jointly optimize the parameters of a set of nerflets so as to form a decomposed representation of the scene, where each object instance is represented by a group of nerflets. During experiments with indoor and outdoor environments, we find that nerflets: (1) fit and approximate the scene more efficiently than traditional global NeRFs, (2) allow the extraction of panoptic and photometric renderings from arbitrary views, and (3) enable tasks rare for NeRFs, such as 3D panoptic segmentation and interactive editing.
MOISST: Multi-modal Optimization of Implicit Scene for SpatioTemporal calibration
With the recent advances in autonomous driving and the decreasing cost of LiDARs, the use of multi-modal sensor systems is on the rise. However, in order to make use of the information provided by a variety of complimentary sensors, it is necessary to accurately calibrate them. We take advantage of recent advances in computer graphics and implicit volumetric scene representation to tackle the problem of multi-sensor spatial and temporal calibration. Thanks to a new formulation of the implicit model optimization, we are able to jointly optimize calibration parameters along with scene representation based on radiometric and geometric measurements. Our method enables accurate and robust calibration from data captured in uncontrolled and unstructured urban environments, making our solution more scalable than existing calibration solutions. We demonstrate the accuracy and robustness of our method in urban scenes typically encountered in autonomous driving scenarios.
Efficient Large-scale Scene Representation with a Hybrid of High-resolution Grid and Plane Features
Existing neural radiance fields (NeRF) methods for large-scale scene modeling require days of training using multiple GPUs, hindering their applications in scenarios with limited computing resources. Despite fast optimization NeRF variants have been proposed based on the explicit dense or hash grid features, their effectivenesses are mainly demonstrated in object-scale scene representation. In this paper, we point out that the low feature resolution in explicit representation is the bottleneck for large-scale unbounded scene representation. To address this problem, we introduce a new and efficient hybrid feature representation for NeRF that fuses the 3D hash-grids and high-resolution 2D dense plane features. Compared with the dense-grid representation, the resolution of a dense 2D plane can be scaled up more efficiently. Based on this hybrid representation, we propose a fast optimization NeRF variant, called GP-NeRF, that achieves better rendering results while maintaining a compact model size. Extensive experiments on multiple large-scale unbounded scene datasets show that our model can converge in 1.5 hours using a single GPU while achieving results comparable to or even better than the existing method that requires about one day's training with 8 GPUs.
Semantic-aware Occlusion Filtering Neural Radiance Fields in the Wild
We present a learning framework for reconstructing neural scene representations from a small number of unconstrained tourist photos. Since each image contains transient occluders, decomposing the static and transient components is necessary to construct radiance fields with such in-the-wild photographs where existing methods require a lot of training data. We introduce SF-NeRF, aiming to disentangle those two components with only a few images given, which exploits semantic information without any supervision. The proposed method contains an occlusion filtering module that predicts the transient color and its opacity for each pixel, which enables the NeRF model to solely learn the static scene representation. This filtering module learns the transient phenomena guided by pixel-wise semantic features obtained by a trainable image encoder that can be trained across multiple scenes to learn the prior of transient objects. Furthermore, we present two techniques to prevent ambiguous decomposition and noisy results of the filtering module. We demonstrate that our method outperforms state-of-the-art novel view synthesis methods on Phototourism dataset in a few-shot setting.
NeuDA: Neural Deformable Anchor for High-Fidelity Implicit Surface Reconstruction
This paper studies implicit surface reconstruction leveraging differentiable ray casting. Previous works such as IDR and NeuS overlook the spatial context in 3D space when predicting and rendering the surface, thereby may fail to capture sharp local topologies such as small holes and structures. To mitigate the limitation, we propose a flexible neural implicit representation leveraging hierarchical voxel grids, namely Neural Deformable Anchor (NeuDA), for high-fidelity surface reconstruction. NeuDA maintains the hierarchical anchor grids where each vertex stores a 3D position (or anchor) instead of the direct embedding (or feature). We optimize the anchor grids such that different local geometry structures can be adaptively encoded. Besides, we dig into the frequency encoding strategies and introduce a simple hierarchical positional encoding method for the hierarchical anchor structure to flexibly exploit the properties of high-frequency and low-frequency geometry and appearance. Experiments on both the DTU and BlendedMVS datasets demonstrate that NeuDA can produce promising mesh surfaces.
Multi-Plane Neural Radiance Fields for Novel View Synthesis
Novel view synthesis is a long-standing problem that revolves around rendering frames of scenes from novel camera viewpoints. Volumetric approaches provide a solution for modeling occlusions through the explicit 3D representation of the camera frustum. Multi-plane Images (MPI) are volumetric methods that represent the scene using front-parallel planes at distinct depths but suffer from depth discretization leading to a 2.D scene representation. Another line of approach relies on implicit 3D scene representations. Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) utilize neural networks for encapsulating the continuous 3D scene structure within the network weights achieving photorealistic synthesis results, however, methods are constrained to per-scene optimization settings which are inefficient in practice. Multi-plane Neural Radiance Fields (MINE) open the door for combining implicit and explicit scene representations. It enables continuous 3D scene representations, especially in the depth dimension, while utilizing the input image features to avoid per-scene optimization. The main drawback of the current literature work in this domain is being constrained to single-view input, limiting the synthesis ability to narrow viewpoint ranges. In this work, we thoroughly examine the performance, generalization, and efficiency of single-view multi-plane neural radiance fields. In addition, we propose a new multiplane NeRF architecture that accepts multiple views to improve the synthesis results and expand the viewing range. Features from the input source frames are effectively fused through a proposed attention-aware fusion module to highlight important information from different viewpoints. Experiments show the effectiveness of attention-based fusion and the promising outcomes of our proposed method when compared to multi-view NeRF and MPI techniques.
MiShape: 3D Shape Modelling of Mitochondria in Microscopy
Fluorescence microscopy is a quintessential tool for observing cells and understanding the underlying mechanisms of life-sustaining processes of all living organisms. The problem of extracting 3D shape of mitochondria from fluorescence microscopy images remains unsolved due to the complex and varied shapes expressed by mitochondria and the poor resolving capacity of these microscopes. We propose an approach to bridge this gap by learning a shape prior for mitochondria termed as MiShape, by leveraging high-resolution electron microscopy data. MiShape is a generative model learned using implicit representations of mitochondrial shapes. It provides a shape distribution that can be used to generate infinite realistic mitochondrial shapes. We demonstrate the representation power of MiShape and its utility for 3D shape reconstruction given a single 2D fluorescence image or a small 3D stack of 2D slices. We also showcase applications of our method by deriving simulated fluorescence microscope datasets that have realistic 3D ground truths for the problem of 2D segmentation and microscope-to-microscope transformation.
NeU-NBV: Next Best View Planning Using Uncertainty Estimation in Image-Based Neural Rendering
Autonomous robotic tasks require actively perceiving the environment to achieve application-specific goals. In this paper, we address the problem of positioning an RGB camera to collect the most informative images to represent an unknown scene, given a limited measurement budget. We propose a novel mapless planning framework to iteratively plan the next best camera view based on collected image measurements. A key aspect of our approach is a new technique for uncertainty estimation in image-based neural rendering, which guides measurement acquisition at the most uncertain view among view candidates, thus maximising the information value during data collection. By incrementally adding new measurements into our image collection, our approach efficiently explores an unknown scene in a mapless manner. We show that our uncertainty estimation is generalisable and valuable for view planning in unknown scenes. Our planning experiments using synthetic and real-world data verify that our uncertainty-guided approach finds informative images leading to more accurate scene representations when compared against baselines.
Dynamic Multi-View Scene Reconstruction Using Neural Implicit Surface
Reconstructing general dynamic scenes is important for many computer vision and graphics applications. Recent works represent the dynamic scene with neural radiance fields for photorealistic view synthesis, while their surface geometry is under-constrained and noisy. Other works introduce surface constraints to the implicit neural representation to disentangle the ambiguity of geometry and appearance field for static scene reconstruction. To bridge the gap between rendering dynamic scenes and recovering static surface geometry, we propose a template-free method to reconstruct surface geometry and appearance using neural implicit representations from multi-view videos. We leverage topology-aware deformation and the signed distance field to learn complex dynamic surfaces via differentiable volume rendering without scene-specific prior knowledge like template models. Furthermore, we propose a novel mask-based ray selection strategy to significantly boost the optimization on challenging time-varying regions. Experiments on different multi-view video datasets demonstrate that our method achieves high-fidelity surface reconstruction as well as photorealistic novel view synthesis.
BakedSDF: Meshing Neural SDFs for Real-Time View Synthesis
We present a method for reconstructing high-quality meshes of large unbounded real-world scenes suitable for photorealistic novel view synthesis. We first optimize a hybrid neural volume-surface scene representation designed to have well-behaved level sets that correspond to surfaces in the scene. We then bake this representation into a high-quality triangle mesh, which we equip with a simple and fast view-dependent appearance model based on spherical Gaussians. Finally, we optimize this baked representation to best reproduce the captured viewpoints, resulting in a model that can leverage accelerated polygon rasterization pipelines for real-time view synthesis on commodity hardware. Our approach outperforms previous scene representations for real-time rendering in terms of accuracy, speed, and power consumption, and produces high quality meshes that enable applications such as appearance editing and physical simulation.
Efficient Implicit Neural Reconstruction Using LiDAR
Modeling scene geometry using implicit neural representation has revealed its advantages in accuracy, flexibility, and low memory usage. Previous approaches have demonstrated impressive results using color or depth images but still have difficulty handling poor light conditions and large-scale scenes. Methods taking global point cloud as input require accurate registration and ground truth coordinate labels, which limits their application scenarios. In this paper, we propose a new method that uses sparse LiDAR point clouds and rough odometry to reconstruct fine-grained implicit occupancy field efficiently within a few minutes. We introduce a new loss function that supervises directly in 3D space without 2D rendering, avoiding information loss. We also manage to refine poses of input frames in an end-to-end manner, creating consistent geometry without global point cloud registration. As far as we know, our method is the first to reconstruct implicit scene representation from LiDAR-only input. Experiments on synthetic and real-world datasets, including indoor and outdoor scenes, prove that our method is effective, efficient, and accurate, obtaining comparable results with existing methods using dense input.
Im2Hands: Learning Attentive Implicit Representation of Interacting Two-Hand Shapes
We present Implicit Two Hands (Im2Hands), the first neural implicit representation of two interacting hands. Unlike existing methods on two-hand reconstruction that rely on a parametric hand model and/or low-resolution meshes, Im2Hands can produce fine-grained geometry of two hands with high hand-to-hand and hand-to-image coherency. To handle the shape complexity and interaction context between two hands, Im2Hands models the occupancy volume of two hands - conditioned on an RGB image and coarse 3D keypoints - by two novel attention-based modules responsible for (1) initial occupancy estimation and (2) context-aware occupancy refinement, respectively. Im2Hands first learns per-hand neural articulated occupancy in the canonical space designed for each hand using query-image attention. It then refines the initial two-hand occupancy in the posed space to enhance the coherency between the two hand shapes using query-anchor attention. In addition, we introduce an optional keypoint refinement module to enable robust two-hand shape estimation from predicted hand keypoints in a single-image reconstruction scenario. We experimentally demonstrate the effectiveness of Im2Hands on two-hand reconstruction in comparison to related methods, where ours achieves state-of-the-art results. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/jyunlee/Im2Hands.
LODE: Locally Conditioned Eikonal Implicit Scene Completion from Sparse LiDAR
Scene completion refers to obtaining dense scene representation from an incomplete perception of complex 3D scenes. This helps robots detect multi-scale obstacles and analyse object occlusions in scenarios such as autonomous driving. Recent advances show that implicit representation learning can be leveraged for continuous scene completion and achieved through physical constraints like Eikonal equations. However, former Eikonal completion methods only demonstrate results on watertight meshes at a scale of tens of meshes. None of them are successfully done for non-watertight LiDAR point clouds of open large scenes at a scale of thousands of scenes. In this paper, we propose a novel Eikonal formulation that conditions the implicit representation on localized shape priors which function as dense boundary value constraints, and demonstrate it works on SemanticKITTI and SemanticPOSS. It can also be extended to semantic Eikonal scene completion with only small modifications to the network architecture. With extensive quantitative and qualitative results, we demonstrate the benefits and drawbacks of existing Eikonal methods, which naturally leads to the new locally conditioned formulation. Notably, we improve IoU from 31.7% to 51.2% on SemanticKITTI and from 40.5% to 48.7% on SemanticPOSS. We extensively ablate our methods and demonstrate that the proposed formulation is robust to a wide spectrum of implementation hyper-parameters. Codes and models are publicly available at https://github.com/AIR-DISCOVER/LODE.
OccDepth: A Depth-Aware Method for 3D Semantic Scene Completion
3D Semantic Scene Completion (SSC) can provide dense geometric and semantic scene representations, which can be applied in the field of autonomous driving and robotic systems. It is challenging to estimate the complete geometry and semantics of a scene solely from visual images, and accurate depth information is crucial for restoring 3D geometry. In this paper, we propose the first stereo SSC method named OccDepth, which fully exploits implicit depth information from stereo images (or RGBD images) to help the recovery of 3D geometric structures. The Stereo Soft Feature Assignment (Stereo-SFA) module is proposed to better fuse 3D depth-aware features by implicitly learning the correlation between stereo images. In particular, when the input are RGBD image, a virtual stereo images can be generated through original RGB image and depth map. Besides, the Occupancy Aware Depth (OAD) module is used to obtain geometry-aware 3D features by knowledge distillation using pre-trained depth models. In addition, a reformed TartanAir benchmark, named SemanticTartanAir, is provided in this paper for further testing our OccDepth method on SSC task. Compared with the state-of-the-art RGB-inferred SSC method, extensive experiments on SemanticKITTI show that our OccDepth method achieves superior performance with improving +4.82% mIoU, of which +2.49% mIoU comes from stereo images and +2.33% mIoU comes from our proposed depth-aware method. Our code and trained models are available at https://github.com/megvii-research/OccDepth.
Reachability-based Trajectory Design with Neural Implicit Safety Constraints
Generating safe motion plans in real-time is a key requirement for deploying robot manipulators to assist humans in collaborative settings. In particular, robots must satisfy strict safety requirements to avoid self-damage or harming nearby humans. Satisfying these requirements is particularly challenging if the robot must also operate in real-time to adjust to changes in its environment.This paper addresses these challenges by proposing Reachability-based Signed Distance Functions (RDFs) as a neural implicit representation for robot safety. RDF, which can be constructed using supervised learning in a tractable fashion, accurately predicts the distance between the swept volume of a robot arm and an obstacle. RDF's inference and gradient computations are fast and scale linearly with the dimension of the system; these features enable its use within a novel real-time trajectory planning framework as a continuous-time collision-avoidance constraint. The planning method using RDF is compared to a variety of state-of-the-art techniques and is demonstrated to successfully solve challenging motion planning tasks for high-dimensional systems faster and more reliably than all tested methods.
ConceptFusion: Open-set Multimodal 3D Mapping
Building 3D maps of the environment is central to robot navigation, planning, and interaction with objects in a scene. Most existing approaches that integrate semantic concepts with 3D maps largely remain confined to the closed-set setting: they can only reason about a finite set of concepts, pre-defined at training time. Further, these maps can only be queried using class labels, or in recent work, using text prompts.   We address both these issues with ConceptFusion, a scene representation that is (1) fundamentally open-set, enabling reasoning beyond a closed set of concepts and (ii) inherently multimodal, enabling a diverse range of possible queries to the 3D map, from language, to images, to audio, to 3D geometry, all working in concert. ConceptFusion leverages the open-set capabilities of today's foundation models pre-trained on internet-scale data to reason about concepts across modalities such as natural language, images, and audio. We demonstrate that pixel-aligned open-set features can be fused into 3D maps via traditional SLAM and multi-view fusion approaches. This enables effective zero-shot spatial reasoning, not needing any additional training or finetuning, and retains long-tailed concepts better than supervised approaches, outperforming them by more than 40% margin on 3D IoU. We extensively evaluate ConceptFusion on a number of real-world datasets, simulated home environments, a real-world tabletop manipulation task, and an autonomous driving platform. We showcase new avenues for blending foundation models with 3D open-set multimodal mapping.   For more information, visit our project page https://concept-fusion.github.io or watch our 5-minute explainer video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rkXgws8fiDs
A Deep Learning-based Global and Segmentation-based Semantic Feature Fusion Approach for Indoor Scene Classification
Indoor scene classification has become an important task in perception modules and has been widely used in various applications. However, problems such as intra-category variability and inter-category similarity have been holding back the models' performance, which leads to the need for new types of features to obtain a more meaningful scene representation. A semantic segmentation mask provides pixel-level information about the objects available in the scene, which makes it a promising source of information to obtain a more meaningful local representation of the scene. Therefore, in this work, a novel approach that uses a semantic segmentation mask to obtain a 2D spatial layout of the object categories across the scene, designated by segmentation-based semantic features (SSFs), is proposed. These features represent, per object category, the pixel count, as well as the 2D average position and respective standard deviation values. Moreover, a two-branch network, GS2F2App, that exploits CNN-based global features extracted from RGB images and the segmentation-based features extracted from the proposed SSFs, is also proposed. GS2F2App was evaluated in two indoor scene benchmark datasets: the SUN RGB-D and the NYU Depth V2, achieving state-of-the-art results on both datasets.
NICER-SLAM: Neural Implicit Scene Encoding for RGB SLAM
Neural implicit representations have recently become popular in simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM), especially in dense visual SLAM. However, previous works in this direction either rely on RGB-D sensors, or require a separate monocular SLAM approach for camera tracking and do not produce high-fidelity dense 3D scene reconstruction. In this paper, we present NICER-SLAM, a dense RGB SLAM system that simultaneously optimizes for camera poses and a hierarchical neural implicit map representation, which also allows for high-quality novel view synthesis. To facilitate the optimization process for mapping, we integrate additional supervision signals including easy-to-obtain monocular geometric cues and optical flow, and also introduce a simple warping loss to further enforce geometry consistency. Moreover, to further boost performance in complicated indoor scenes, we also propose a local adaptive transformation from signed distance functions (SDFs) to density in the volume rendering equation. On both synthetic and real-world datasets we demonstrate strong performance in dense mapping, tracking, and novel view synthesis, even competitive with recent RGB-D SLAM systems.
Object-Centric Scene Representations using Active Inference
Representing a scene and its constituent objects from raw sensory data is a core ability for enabling robots to interact with their environment. In this paper, we propose a novel approach for scene understanding, leveraging a hierarchical object-centric generative model that enables an agent to infer object category and pose in an allocentric reference frame using active inference, a neuro-inspired framework for action and perception. For evaluating the behavior of an active vision agent, we also propose a new benchmark where, given a target viewpoint of a particular object, the agent needs to find the best matching viewpoint given a workspace with randomly positioned objects in 3D. We demonstrate that our active inference agent is able to balance epistemic foraging and goal-driven behavior, and outperforms both supervised and reinforcement learning baselines by a large margin.
SceneDreamer: Unbounded 3D Scene Generation from 2D Image Collections
In this work, we present SceneDreamer, an unconditional generative model for unbounded 3D scenes, which synthesizes large-scale 3D landscapes from random noise. Our framework is learned from in-the-wild 2D image collections only, without any 3D annotations. At the core of SceneDreamer is a principled learning paradigm comprising 1) an efficient yet expressive 3D scene representation, 2) a generative scene parameterization, and 3) an effective renderer that can leverage the knowledge from 2D images. Our approach begins with an efficient bird's-eye-view (BEV) representation generated from simplex noise, which includes a height field for surface elevation and a semantic field for detailed scene semantics. This BEV scene representation enables 1) representing a 3D scene with quadratic complexity, 2) disentangled geometry and semantics, and 3) efficient training. Moreover, we propose a novel generative neural hash grid to parameterize the latent space based on 3D positions and scene semantics, aiming to encode generalizable features across various scenes. Lastly, a neural volumetric renderer, learned from 2D image collections through adversarial training, is employed to produce photorealistic images. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of SceneDreamer and superiority over state-of-the-art methods in generating vivid yet diverse unbounded 3D worlds.
Neural Wavelet-domain Diffusion for 3D Shape Generation, Inversion, and Manipulation
This paper presents a new approach for 3D shape generation, inversion, and manipulation, through a direct generative modeling on a continuous implicit representation in wavelet domain. Specifically, we propose a compact wavelet representation with a pair of coarse and detail coefficient volumes to implicitly represent 3D shapes via truncated signed distance functions and multi-scale biorthogonal wavelets. Then, we design a pair of neural networks: a diffusion-based generator to produce diverse shapes in the form of the coarse coefficient volumes and a detail predictor to produce compatible detail coefficient volumes for introducing fine structures and details. Further, we may jointly train an encoder network to learn a latent space for inverting shapes, allowing us to enable a rich variety of whole-shape and region-aware shape manipulations. Both quantitative and qualitative experimental results manifest the compelling shape generation, inversion, and manipulation capabilities of our approach over the state-of-the-art methods.
Automatic Intersection Management in Mixed Traffic Using Reinforcement Learning and Graph Neural Networks
Connected automated driving has the potential to significantly improve urban traffic efficiency, e.g., by alleviating issues due to occlusion. Cooperative behavior planning can be employed to jointly optimize the motion of multiple vehicles. Most existing approaches to automatic intersection management, however, only consider fully automated traffic. In practice, mixed traffic, i.e., the simultaneous road usage by automated and human-driven vehicles, will be prevalent. The present work proposes to leverage reinforcement learning and a graph-based scene representation for cooperative multi-agent planning. We build upon our previous works that showed the applicability of such machine learning methods to fully automated traffic. The scene representation is extended for mixed traffic and considers uncertainty in the human drivers' intentions. In the simulation-based evaluation, we model measurement uncertainties through noise processes that are tuned using real-world data. The paper evaluates the proposed method against an enhanced first in - first out scheme, our baseline for mixed traffic management. With increasing share of automated vehicles, the learned planner significantly increases the vehicle throughput and reduces the delay due to interaction. Non-automated vehicles benefit virtually alike.
SNeRL: Semantic-aware Neural Radiance Fields for Reinforcement Learning
As previous representations for reinforcement learning cannot effectively incorporate a human-intuitive understanding of the 3D environment, they usually suffer from sub-optimal performances. In this paper, we present Semantic-aware Neural Radiance Fields for Reinforcement Learning (SNeRL), which jointly optimizes semantic-aware neural radiance fields (NeRF) with a convolutional encoder to learn 3D-aware neural implicit representation from multi-view images. We introduce 3D semantic and distilled feature fields in parallel to the RGB radiance fields in NeRF to learn semantic and object-centric representation for reinforcement learning. SNeRL outperforms not only previous pixel-based representations but also recent 3D-aware representations both in model-free and model-based reinforcement learning.
HexPlane: A Fast Representation for Dynamic Scenes
Modeling and re-rendering dynamic 3D scenes is a challenging task in 3D vision. Prior approaches build on NeRF and rely on implicit representations. This is slow since it requires many MLP evaluations, constraining real-world applications. We show that dynamic 3D scenes can be explicitly represented by six planes of learned features, leading to an elegant solution we call HexPlane. A HexPlane computes features for points in spacetime by fusing vectors extracted from each plane, which is highly efficient. Pairing a HexPlane with a tiny MLP to regress output colors and training via volume rendering gives impressive results for novel view synthesis on dynamic scenes, matching the image quality of prior work but reducing training time by more than $100\times$. Extensive ablations confirm our HexPlane design and show that it is robust to different feature fusion mechanisms, coordinate systems, and decoding mechanisms. HexPlane is a simple and effective solution for representing 4D volumes, and we hope they can broadly contribute to modeling spacetime for dynamic 3D scenes.
An Empirical Study of Metrics to Measure Representational Harms in Pre-Trained Language Models
Large-scale Pre-Trained Language Models (PTLMs) capture knowledge from massive human-written data which contains latent societal biases and toxic contents. In this paper, we leverage the primary task of PTLMs, i.e., language modeling, and propose a new metric to quantify manifested implicit representational harms in PTLMs towards 13 marginalized demographics. Using this metric, we conducted an empirical analysis of 24 widely used PTLMs. Our analysis provides insights into the correlation between the proposed metric in this work and other related metrics for representational harm. We observe that our metric correlates with most of the gender-specific metrics in the literature. Through extensive experiments, we explore the connections between PTLMs architectures and representational harms across two dimensions: depth and width of the networks. We found that prioritizing depth over width, mitigates representational harms in some PTLMs. Our code and data can be found at https://github.com/microsoft/SafeNLP.
Behind the Scenes: Density Fields for Single View Reconstruction
Inferring a meaningful geometric scene representation from a single image is a fundamental problem in computer vision. Approaches based on traditional depth map prediction can only reason about areas that are visible in the image. Currently, neural radiance fields (NeRFs) can capture true 3D including color, but are too complex to be generated from a single image. As an alternative, we propose to predict implicit density fields. A density field maps every location in the frustum of the input image to volumetric density. By directly sampling color from the available views instead of storing color in the density field, our scene representation becomes significantly less complex compared to NeRFs, and a neural network can predict it in a single forward pass. The prediction network is trained through self-supervision from only video data. Our formulation allows volume rendering to perform both depth prediction and novel view synthesis. Through experiments, we show that our method is able to predict meaningful geometry for regions that are occluded in the input image. Additionally, we demonstrate the potential of our approach on three datasets for depth prediction and novel-view synthesis.
Min-Path-Tracing: A Diffraction Aware Alternative to Image Method in Ray Tracing
For more than twenty years, Ray Tracing methods have continued to improve on both accuracy and computational time aspects. However, most state-of-the-art image-based ray tracers still rely on a description of the environment that only contains planar surfaces. They are also limited by the number of diffractions they can simulate. We present Min-Path-Tracing (MPT), an alternative to the image method that can handle diffractions seamlessly, while also leveraging the possibility to use different geometries for surfaces or edges, such as parabolic mirrors. MPT uses implicit representations of objects to write the path finding challenge as a minimization problem. We further show that multiple diffractions can be important in some situations, which MPT is capable to simulate without increasing neither the computational nor the implementation complexity.
HyperReel: High-Fidelity 6-DoF Video with Ray-Conditioned Sampling
Volumetric scene representations enable photorealistic view synthesis for static scenes and form the basis of several existing 6-DoF video techniques. However, the volume rendering procedures that drive these representations necessitate careful trade-offs in terms of quality, rendering speed, and memory efficiency. In particular, existing methods fail to simultaneously achieve real-time performance, small memory footprint, and high-quality rendering for challenging real-world scenes. To address these issues, we present HyperReel -- a novel 6-DoF video representation. The two core components of HyperReel are: (1) a ray-conditioned sample prediction network that enables high-fidelity, high frame rate rendering at high resolutions and (2) a compact and memory-efficient dynamic volume representation. Our 6-DoF video pipeline achieves the best performance compared to prior and contemporary approaches in terms of visual quality with small memory requirements, while also rendering at up to 18 frames-per-second at megapixel resolution without any custom CUDA code.
SIRL: Similarity-based Implicit Representation Learning
When robots learn reward functions using high capacity models that take raw state directly as input, they need to both learn a representation for what matters in the task -- the task ``features" -- as well as how to combine these features into a single objective. If they try to do both at once from input designed to teach the full reward function, it is easy to end up with a representation that contains spurious correlations in the data, which fails to generalize to new settings. Instead, our ultimate goal is to enable robots to identify and isolate the causal features that people actually care about and use when they represent states and behavior. Our idea is that we can tune into this representation by asking users what behaviors they consider similar: behaviors will be similar if the features that matter are similar, even if low-level behavior is different; conversely, behaviors will be different if even one of the features that matter differs. This, in turn, is what enables the robot to disambiguate between what needs to go into the representation versus what is spurious, as well as what aspects of behavior can be compressed together versus not. The notion of learning representations based on similarity has a nice parallel in contrastive learning, a self-supervised representation learning technique that maps visually similar data points to similar embeddings, where similarity is defined by a designer through data augmentation heuristics. By contrast, in order to learn the representations that people use, so we can learn their preferences and objectives, we use their definition of similarity. In simulation as well as in a user study, we show that learning through such similarity queries leads to representations that, while far from perfect, are indeed more generalizable than self-supervised and task-input alternatives.
Goal-guided Transformer-enabled Reinforcement Learning for Efficient Autonomous Navigation
Despite some successful applications of goal-driven navigation, existing deep reinforcement learning-based approaches notoriously suffers from poor data efficiency issue. One of the reasons is that the goal information is decoupled from the perception module and directly introduced as a condition of decision-making, resulting in the goal-irrelevant features of the scene representation playing an adversary role during the learning process. In light of this, we present a novel Goal-guided Transformer-enabled reinforcement learning (GTRL) approach by considering the physical goal states as an input of the scene encoder for guiding the scene representation to couple with the goal information and realizing efficient autonomous navigation. More specifically, we propose a novel variant of the Vision Transformer as the backbone of the perception system, namely Goal-guided Transformer (GoT), and pre-train it with expert priors to boost the data efficiency. Subsequently, a reinforcement learning algorithm is instantiated for the decision-making system, taking the goal-oriented scene representation from the GoT as the input and generating decision commands. As a result, our approach motivates the scene representation to concentrate mainly on goal-relevant features, which substantially enhances the data efficiency of the DRL learning process, leading to superior navigation performance. Both simulation and real-world experimental results manifest the superiority of our approach in terms of data efficiency, performance, robustness, and sim-to-real generalization, compared with other state-of-art baselines. Demonstration videos are available at \colorb{https://youtu.be/93LGlGvaN0c.
Attentional Graph Convolutional Network for Structure-aware Audio-Visual Scene Classification
Audio-Visual scene understanding is a challenging problem due to the unstructured spatial-temporal relations that exist in the audio signals and spatial layouts of different objects and various texture patterns in the visual images. Recently, many studies have focused on abstracting features from convolutional neural networks while the learning of explicit semantically relevant frames of sound signals and visual images has been overlooked. To this end, we present an end-to-end framework, namely attentional graph convolutional network (AGCN), for structure-aware audio-visual scene representation. First, the spectrogram of sound and input image is processed by a backbone network for feature extraction. Then, to build multi-scale hierarchical information of input features, we utilize an attention fusion mechanism to aggregate features from multiple layers of the backbone network. Notably, to well represent the salient regions and contextual information of audio-visual inputs, the salient acoustic graph (SAG) and contextual acoustic graph (CAG), salient visual graph (SVG), and contextual visual graph (CVG) are constructed for the audio-visual scene representation. Finally, the constructed graphs pass through a graph convolutional network for structure-aware audio-visual scene recognition. Extensive experimental results on the audio, visual and audio-visual scene recognition datasets show that promising results have been achieved by the AGCN methods. Visualizing graphs on the spectrograms and images have been presented to show the effectiveness of proposed CAG/SAG and CVG/SVG that could focus on the salient and semantic relevant regions.
NIRVANA: Neural Implicit Representations of Videos with Adaptive Networks and Autoregressive Patch-wise Modeling
Implicit Neural Representations (INR) have recently shown to be powerful tool for high-quality video compression. However, existing works are limiting as they do not explicitly exploit the temporal redundancy in videos, leading to a long encoding time. Additionally, these methods have fixed architectures which do not scale to longer videos or higher resolutions. To address these issues, we propose NIRVANA, which treats videos as groups of frames and fits separate networks to each group performing patch-wise prediction. This design shares computation within each group, in the spatial and temporal dimensions, resulting in reduced encoding time of the video. The video representation is modeled autoregressively, with networks fit on a current group initialized using weights from the previous group's model. To further enhance efficiency, we perform quantization of the network parameters during training, requiring no post-hoc pruning or quantization. When compared with previous works on the benchmark UVG dataset, NIRVANA improves encoding quality from 37.36 to 37.70 (in terms of PSNR) and the encoding speed by 12X, while maintaining the same compression rate. In contrast to prior video INR works which struggle with larger resolution and longer videos, we show that our algorithm is highly flexible and scales naturally due to its patch-wise and autoregressive designs. Moreover, our method achieves variable bitrate compression by adapting to videos with varying inter-frame motion. NIRVANA achieves 6X decoding speed and scales well with more GPUs, making it practical for various deployment scenarios.
A Review of Scene Representations for Robot Manipulators
For a robot to act intelligently, it needs to sense the world around it. Increasingly, robots build an internal representation of the world from sensor readings. This representation can then be used to inform downstream tasks, such as manipulation, collision avoidance, or human interaction. In practice, scene representations vary widely depending on the type of robot, the sensing modality, and the task that the robot is designed to do. This review provides an overview of the scene representations used for robot manipulators (robot arms). We focus primarily on representations which are built from real world sensing and are used to inform some downstream robotics task.
Removing Objects From Neural Radiance Fields
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) are emerging as a ubiquitous scene representation that allows for novel view synthesis. Increasingly, NeRFs will be shareable with other people. Before sharing a NeRF, though, it might be desirable to remove personal information or unsightly objects. Such removal is not easily achieved with the current NeRF editing frameworks. We propose a framework to remove objects from a NeRF representation created from an RGB-D sequence. Our NeRF inpainting method leverages recent work in 2D image inpainting and is guided by a user-provided mask. Our algorithm is underpinned by a confidence based view selection procedure. It chooses which of the individual 2D inpainted images to use in the creation of the NeRF, so that the resulting inpainted NeRF is 3D consistent. We show that our method for NeRF editing is effective for synthesizing plausible inpaintings in a multi-view coherent manner. We validate our approach using a new and still-challenging dataset for the task of NeRF inpainting.
Incremental Neural Implicit Representation with Uncertainty-Filtered Knowledge Distillation
Recent neural implicit representations (NIRs) have achieved great success in the tasks of 3D reconstruction and novel view synthesis. However, they suffer from the catastrophic forgetting problem when continuously learning from streaming data without revisiting the previously seen data. This limitation prohibits the application of existing NIRs to scenarios where images come in sequentially. In view of this, we explore the task of incremental learning for NIRs in this work. We design a student-teacher framework to mitigate the catastrophic forgetting problem. Specifically, we iterate the process of using the student as the teacher at the end of each time step and let the teacher guide the training of the student in the next step. As a result, the student network is able to learn new information from the streaming data and retain old knowledge from the teacher network simultaneously. Although intuitive, naively applying the student-teacher pipeline does not work well in our task. Not all information from the teacher network is helpful since it is only trained with the old data. To alleviate this problem, we further introduce a random inquirer and an uncertainty-based filter to filter useful information. Our proposed method is general and thus can be adapted to different implicit representations such as neural radiance field (NeRF) and neural SDF. Extensive experimental results for both 3D reconstruction and novel view synthesis demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach compared to different baselines.
HARP: Personalized Hand Reconstruction from a Monocular RGB Video
We present HARP (HAnd Reconstruction and Personalization), a personalized hand avatar creation approach that takes a short monocular RGB video of a human hand as input and reconstructs a faithful hand avatar exhibiting a high-fidelity appearance and geometry. In contrast to the major trend of neural implicit representations, HARP models a hand with a mesh-based parametric hand model, a vertex displacement map, a normal map, and an albedo without any neural components. As validated by our experiments, the explicit nature of our representation enables a truly scalable, robust, and efficient approach to hand avatar creation. HARP is optimized via gradient descent from a short sequence captured by a hand-held mobile phone and can be directly used in AR/VR applications with real-time rendering capability. To enable this, we carefully design and implement a shadow-aware differentiable rendering scheme that is robust to high degree articulations and self-shadowing regularly present in hand motion sequences, as well as challenging lighting conditions. It also generalizes to unseen poses and novel viewpoints, producing photo-realistic renderings of hand animations performing highly-articulated motions. Furthermore, the learned HARP representation can be used for improving 3D hand pose estimation quality in challenging viewpoints. The key advantages of HARP are validated by the in-depth analyses on appearance reconstruction, novel-view and novel pose synthesis, and 3D hand pose refinement. It is an AR/VR-ready personalized hand representation that shows superior fidelity and scalability.
Neural Implicit k-Space for Binning-free Non-Cartesian Cardiac MR Imaging
In this work, we propose a novel image reconstruction framework that directly learns a neural implicit representation in k-space for ECG-triggered non-Cartesian Cardiac Magnetic Resonance Imaging (CMR). While existing methods bin acquired data from neighboring time points to reconstruct one phase of the cardiac motion, our framework allows for a continuous, binning-free, and subject-specific k-space representation.We assign a unique coordinate that consists of time, coil index, and frequency domain location to each sampled k-space point. We then learn the subject-specific mapping from these unique coordinates to k-space intensities using a multi-layer perceptron with frequency domain regularization. During inference, we obtain a complete k-space for Cartesian coordinates and an arbitrary temporal resolution. A simple inverse Fourier transform recovers the image, eliminating the need for density compensation and costly non-uniform Fourier transforms for non-Cartesian data. This novel imaging framework was tested on 42 radially sampled datasets from 6 subjects. The proposed method outperforms other techniques qualitatively and quantitatively using data from four and one heartbeat(s) and 30 cardiac phases. Our results for one heartbeat reconstruction of 50 cardiac phases show improved artifact removal and spatio-temporal resolution, leveraging the potential for real-time CMR.
PointAvatar: Deformable Point-based Head Avatars from Videos
The ability to create realistic, animatable and relightable head avatars from casual video sequences would open up wide ranging applications in communication and entertainment. Current methods either build on explicit 3D morphable meshes (3DMM) or exploit neural implicit representations. The former are limited by fixed topology, while the latter are non-trivial to deform and inefficient to render. Furthermore, existing approaches entangle lighting in the color estimation, thus they are limited in re-rendering the avatar in new environments. In contrast, we propose PointAvatar, a deformable point-based representation that disentangles the source color into intrinsic albedo and normal-dependent shading. We demonstrate that PointAvatar bridges the gap between existing mesh- and implicit representations, combining high-quality geometry and appearance with topological flexibility, ease of deformation and rendering efficiency. We show that our method is able to generate animatable 3D avatars using monocular videos from multiple sources including hand-held smartphones, laptop webcams and internet videos, achieving state-of-the-art quality in challenging cases where previous methods fail, e.g., thin hair strands, while being significantly more efficient in training than competing methods.
MEIL-NeRF: Memory-Efficient Incremental Learning of Neural Radiance Fields
Hinged on the representation power of neural networks, neural radiance fields (NeRF) have recently emerged as one of the promising and widely applicable methods for 3D object and scene representation. However, NeRF faces challenges in practical applications, such as large-scale scenes and edge devices with a limited amount of memory, where data needs to be processed sequentially. Under such incremental learning scenarios, neural networks are known to suffer catastrophic forgetting: easily forgetting previously seen data after training with new data. We observe that previous incremental learning algorithms are limited by either low performance or memory scalability issues. As such, we develop a Memory-Efficient Incremental Learning algorithm for NeRF (MEIL-NeRF). MEIL-NeRF takes inspiration from NeRF itself in that a neural network can serve as a memory that provides the pixel RGB values, given rays as queries. Upon the motivation, our framework learns which rays to query NeRF to extract previous pixel values. The extracted pixel values are then used to train NeRF in a self-distillation manner to prevent catastrophic forgetting. As a result, MEIL-NeRF demonstrates constant memory consumption and competitive performance.
ECON: Explicit Clothed humans Optimized via Normal integration
The combination of deep learning, artist-curated scans, and Implicit Functions (IF), is enabling the creation of detailed, clothed, 3D humans from images. However, existing methods are far from perfect. IF-based methods recover free-form geometry, but produce disembodied limbs or degenerate shapes for novel poses or clothes. To increase robustness for these cases, existing work uses an explicit parametric body model to constrain surface reconstruction, but this limits the recovery of free-form surfaces such as loose clothing that deviates from the body. What we want is a method that combines the best properties of implicit representation and explicit body regularization. To this end, we make two key observations: (1) current networks are better at inferring detailed 2D maps than full-3D surfaces, and (2) a parametric model can be seen as a "canvas" for stitching together detailed surface patches. Based on these, our method, ECON, has three main steps: (1) It infers detailed 2D normal maps for the front and back side of a clothed person. (2) From these, it recovers 2.5D front and back surfaces, called d-BiNI, that are equally detailed, yet incomplete, and registers these w.r.t. each other with the help of a SMPL-X body mesh recovered from the image. (3) It "inpaints" the missing geometry between d-BiNI surfaces. If the face and hands are noisy, they can optionally be replaced with the ones of SMPL-X. As a result, ECON infers high-fidelity 3D humans even in loose clothes and challenging poses. This goes beyond previous methods, according to the quantitative evaluation on the CAPE and Renderpeople datasets. Perceptual studies also show that ECON's perceived realism is better by a large margin. Code and models are available for research purposes at econ.is.tue.mpg.de
ROAD: Learning an Implicit Recursive Octree Auto-Decoder to Efficiently Encode 3D Shapes
Compact and accurate representations of 3D shapes are central to many perception and robotics tasks. State-of-the-art learning-based methods can reconstruct single objects but scale poorly to large datasets. We present a novel recursive implicit representation to efficiently and accurately encode large datasets of complex 3D shapes by recursively traversing an implicit octree in latent space. Our implicit Recursive Octree Auto-Decoder (ROAD) learns a hierarchically structured latent space enabling state-of-the-art reconstruction results at a compression ratio above 99%. We also propose an efficient curriculum learning scheme that naturally exploits the coarse-to-fine properties of the underlying octree spatial representation. We explore the scaling law relating latent space dimension, dataset size, and reconstruction accuracy, showing that increasing the latent space dimension is enough to scale to large shape datasets. Finally, we show that our learned latent space encodes a coarse-to-fine hierarchical structure yielding reusable latents across different levels of details, and we provide qualitative evidence of generalization to novel shapes outside the training set.
MIRA: Mental Imagery for Robotic Affordances
Humans form mental images of 3D scenes to support counterfactual imagination, planning, and motor control. Our abilities to predict the appearance and affordance of the scene from previously unobserved viewpoints aid us in performing manipulation tasks (e.g., 6-DoF kitting) with a level of ease that is currently out of reach for existing robot learning frameworks. In this work, we aim to build artificial systems that can analogously plan actions on top of imagined images. To this end, we introduce Mental Imagery for Robotic Affordances (MIRA), an action reasoning framework that optimizes actions with novel-view synthesis and affordance prediction in the loop. Given a set of 2D RGB images, MIRA builds a consistent 3D scene representation, through which we synthesize novel orthographic views amenable to pixel-wise affordances prediction for action optimization. We illustrate how this optimization process enables us to generalize to unseen out-of-plane rotations for 6-DoF robotic manipulation tasks given a limited number of demonstrations, paving the way toward machines that autonomously learn to understand the world around them for planning actions.
Neural Volume Super-Resolution
Neural volumetric representations have become a widely adopted model for radiance fields in 3D scenes. These representations are fully implicit or hybrid function approximators of the instantaneous volumetric radiance in a scene, which are typically learned from multi-view captures of the scene. We investigate the new task of neural volume super-resolution - rendering high-resolution views corresponding to a scene captured at low resolution. To this end, we propose a neural super-resolution network that operates directly on the volumetric representation of the scene. This approach allows us to exploit an advantage of operating in the volumetric domain, namely the ability to guarantee consistent super-resolution across different viewing directions. To realize our method, we devise a novel 3D representation that hinges on multiple 2D feature planes. This allows us to super-resolve the 3D scene representation by applying 2D convolutional networks on the 2D feature planes. We validate the proposed method by super-resolving multi-view consistent views on a diverse set of unseen 3D scenes, confirming qualitative and quantitatively favorable quality over existing approaches.
PRISM: Probabilistic Real-Time Inference in Spatial World Models
We introduce PRISM, a method for real-time filtering in a probabilistic generative model of agent motion and visual perception. Previous approaches either lack uncertainty estimates for the map and agent state, do not run in real-time, do not have a dense scene representation or do not model agent dynamics. Our solution reconciles all of these aspects. We start from a predefined state-space model which combines differentiable rendering and 6-DoF dynamics. Probabilistic inference in this model amounts to simultaneous localisation and mapping (SLAM) and is intractable. We use a series of approximations to Bayesian inference to arrive at probabilistic map and state estimates. We take advantage of well-established methods and closed-form updates, preserving accuracy and enabling real-time capability. The proposed solution runs at 10Hz real-time and is similarly accurate to state-of-the-art SLAM in small to medium-sized indoor environments, with high-speed UAV and handheld camera agents (Blackbird, EuRoC and TUM-RGBD).
Pixel2ISDF: Implicit Signed Distance Fields based Human Body Model from Multi-view and Multi-pose Images
In this report, we focus on reconstructing clothed humans in the canonical space given multiple views and poses of a human as the input. To achieve this, we utilize the geometric prior of the SMPLX model in the canonical space to learn the implicit representation for geometry reconstruction. Based on the observation that the topology between the posed mesh and the mesh in the canonical space are consistent, we propose to learn latent codes on the posed mesh by leveraging multiple input images and then assign the latent codes to the mesh in the canonical space. Specifically, we first leverage normal and geometry networks to extract the feature vector for each vertex on the SMPLX mesh. Normal maps are adopted for better generalization to unseen images compared to 2D images. Then, features for each vertex on the posed mesh from multiple images are integrated by MLPs. The integrated features acting as the latent code are anchored to the SMPLX mesh in the canonical space. Finally, latent code for each 3D point is extracted and utilized to calculate the SDF. Our work for reconstructing the human shape on canonical pose achieves 3rd performance on WCPA MVP-Human Body Challenge.
Private Multiparty Perception for Navigation
We introduce a framework for navigating through cluttered environments by connecting multiple cameras together while simultaneously preserving privacy. Occlusions and obstacles in large environments are often challenging situations for navigation agents because the environment is not fully observable from a single camera view. Given multiple camera views of an environment, our approach learns to produce a multiview scene representation that can only be used for navigation, provably preventing one party from inferring anything beyond the output task. On a new navigation dataset that we will publicly release, experiments show that private multiparty representations allow navigation through complex scenes and around obstacles while jointly preserving privacy. Our approach scales to an arbitrary number of camera viewpoints. We believe developing visual representations that preserve privacy is increasingly important for many applications such as navigation.
3D-LDM: Neural Implicit 3D Shape Generation with Latent Diffusion Models
Diffusion models have shown great promise for image generation, beating GANs in terms of generation diversity, with comparable image quality. However, their application to 3D shapes has been limited to point or voxel representations that can in practice not accurately represent a 3D surface. We propose a diffusion model for neural implicit representations of 3D shapes that operates in the latent space of an auto-decoder. This allows us to generate diverse and high quality 3D surfaces. We additionally show that we can condition our model on images or text to enable image-to-3D generation and text-to-3D generation using CLIP embeddings. Furthermore, adding noise to the latent codes of existing shapes allows us to explore shape variations.
SparseFusion: Distilling View-conditioned Diffusion for 3D Reconstruction
We propose SparseFusion, a sparse view 3D reconstruction approach that unifies recent advances in neural rendering and probabilistic image generation. Existing approaches typically build on neural rendering with re-projected features but fail to generate unseen regions or handle uncertainty under large viewpoint changes. Alternate methods treat this as a (probabilistic) 2D synthesis task, and while they can generate plausible 2D images, they do not infer a consistent underlying 3D. However, we find that this trade-off between 3D consistency and probabilistic image generation does not need to exist. In fact, we show that geometric consistency and generative inference can be complementary in a mode-seeking behavior. By distilling a 3D consistent scene representation from a view-conditioned latent diffusion model, we are able to recover a plausible 3D representation whose renderings are both accurate and realistic. We evaluate our approach across 51 categories in the CO3D dataset and show that it outperforms existing methods, in both distortion and perception metrics, for sparse-view novel view synthesis.
3D-Aware Object Goal Navigation via Simultaneous Exploration and Identification
Object goal navigation (ObjectNav) in unseen environments is a fundamental task for Embodied AI. Agents in existing works learn ObjectNav policies based on 2D maps, scene graphs, or image sequences. Considering this task happens in 3D space, a 3D-aware agent can advance its ObjectNav capability via learning from fine-grained spatial information. However, leveraging 3D scene representation can be prohibitively unpractical for policy learning in this floor-level task, due to low sample efficiency and expensive computational cost. In this work, we propose a framework for the challenging 3D-aware ObjectNav based on two straightforward sub-policies. The two sub-polices, namely corner-guided exploration policy and category-aware identification policy, simultaneously perform by utilizing online fused 3D points as observation. Through extensive experiments, we show that this framework can dramatically improve the performance in ObjectNav through learning from 3D scene representation. Our framework achieves the best performance among all modular-based methods on the Matterport3D and Gibson datasets, while requiring (up to 30x) less computational cost for training.
DINER: Depth-aware Image-based NEural Radiance fields
We present Depth-aware Image-based NEural Radiance fields (DINER). Given a sparse set of RGB input views, we predict depth and feature maps to guide the reconstruction of a volumetric scene representation that allows us to render 3D objects under novel views. Specifically, we propose novel techniques to incorporate depth information into feature fusion and efficient scene sampling. In comparison to the previous state of the art, DINER achieves higher synthesis quality and can process input views with greater disparity. This allows us to capture scenes more completely without changing capturing hardware requirements and ultimately enables larger viewpoint changes during novel view synthesis. We evaluate our method by synthesizing novel views, both for human heads and for general objects, and observe significantly improved qualitative results and increased perceptual metrics compared to the previous state of the art. The code is publicly available for research purposes.
Efficient 3D Reconstruction, Streaming and Visualization of Static and Dynamic Scene Parts for Multi-client Live-telepresence in Large-scale Environments
Despite the impressive progress of telepresence systems for room-scale scenes with static and dynamic scene entities, expanding their capabilities to scenarios with larger dynamic environments beyond a fixed size of a few square-meters remains challenging.   In this paper, we aim at sharing 3D live-telepresence experiences in large-scale environments beyond room scale with both static and dynamic scene entities at practical bandwidth requirements only based on light-weight scene capture with a single moving consumer-grade RGB-D camera. To this end, we present a system which is built upon a novel hybrid volumetric scene representation in terms of the combination of a voxel-based scene representation for the static contents, that not only stores the reconstructed surface geometry but also contains information about the object semantics as well as their accumulated dynamic movement over time, and a point-cloud-based representation for dynamic scene parts, where the respective separation from static parts is achieved based on semantic and instance information extracted for the input frames. With an independent yet simultaneous streaming of both static and dynamic content, where we seamlessly integrate potentially moving but currently static scene entities in the static model until they are becoming dynamic again, as well as the fusion of static and dynamic data at the remote client, our system is able to achieve VR-based live-telepresence at close to real-time rates. Our evaluation demonstrates the potential of our novel approach in terms of visual quality, performance, and ablation studies regarding involved design choices.
RUST: Latent Neural Scene Representations from Unposed Imagery
Inferring the structure of 3D scenes from 2D observations is a fundamental challenge in computer vision. Recently popularized approaches based on neural scene representations have achieved tremendous impact and have been applied across a variety of applications. One of the major remaining challenges in this space is training a single model which can provide latent representations which effectively generalize beyond a single scene. Scene Representation Transformer (SRT) has shown promise in this direction, but scaling it to a larger set of diverse scenes is challenging and necessitates accurately posed ground truth data. To address this problem, we propose RUST (Really Unposed Scene representation Transformer), a pose-free approach to novel view synthesis trained on RGB images alone. Our main insight is that one can train a Pose Encoder that peeks at the target image and learns a latent pose embedding which is used by the decoder for view synthesis. We perform an empirical investigation into the learned latent pose structure and show that it allows meaningful test-time camera transformations and accurate explicit pose readouts. Perhaps surprisingly, RUST achieves similar quality as methods which have access to perfect camera pose, thereby unlocking the potential for large-scale training of amortized neural scene representations.
PIP: Positional-encoding Image Prior
In Deep Image Prior (DIP), a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) is fitted to map a latent space to a degraded (e.g. noisy) image but in the process learns to reconstruct the clean image. This phenomenon is attributed to CNN's internal image-prior. We revisit the DIP framework, examining it from the perspective of a neural implicit representation. Motivated by this perspective, we replace the random or learned latent with Fourier-Features (Positional Encoding). We show that thanks to the Fourier features properties, we can replace the convolution layers with simple pixel-level MLPs. We name this scheme ``Positional Encoding Image Prior" (PIP) and exhibit that it performs very similarly to DIP on various image-reconstruction tasks with much less parameters required. Additionally, we demonstrate that PIP can be easily extended to videos, where 3D-DIP struggles and suffers from instability. Code and additional examples for all tasks, including videos, are available on the project page https://nimrodshabtay.github.io/PIP/
ToothInpaintor: Tooth Inpainting from Partial 3D Dental Model and 2D Panoramic Image
In orthodontic treatment, a full tooth model consisting of both the crown and root is indispensable in making the treatment plan. However, acquiring tooth root information to obtain the full tooth model from CBCT images is sometimes restricted due to the massive radiation of CBCT scanning. Thus, reconstructing the full tooth shape from the ready-to-use input, e.g., the partial intra-oral scan and the 2D panoramic image, is an applicable and valuable solution. In this paper, we propose a neural network, called ToothInpaintor, that takes as input a partial 3D dental model and a 2D panoramic image and reconstructs the full tooth model with high-quality root(s). Technically, we utilize the implicit representation for both the 3D and 2D inputs, and learn a latent space of the full tooth shapes. At test time, given an input, we successfully project it to the learned latent space via neural optimization to obtain the full tooth model conditioned on the input. To help find the robust projection, a novel adversarial learning module is exploited in our pipeline. We extensively evaluate our method on a dataset collected from real-world clinics. The evaluation, comparison, and comprehensive ablation studies demonstrate that our approach produces accurate complete tooth models robustly and outperforms the state-of-the-art methods.
ShadowNeuS: Neural SDF Reconstruction by Shadow Ray Supervision
By supervising camera rays between a scene and multi-view image planes, NeRF reconstructs a neural scene representation for the task of novel view synthesis. On the other hand, shadow rays between the light source and the scene have yet to be considered. Therefore, we propose a novel shadow ray supervision scheme that optimizes both the samples along the ray and the ray location. By supervising shadow rays, we successfully reconstruct a neural SDF of the scene from single-view images under multiple lighting conditions. Given single-view binary shadows, we train a neural network to reconstruct a complete scene not limited by the camera's line of sight. By further modeling the correlation between the image colors and the shadow rays, our technique can also be effectively extended to RGB inputs. We compare our method with previous works on challenging tasks of shape reconstruction from single-view binary shadow or RGB images and observe significant improvements. The code and data are available at https://github.com/gerwang/ShadowNeuS.
Diffusion-SDF: Conditional Generative Modeling of Signed Distance Functions
Probabilistic diffusion models have achieved state-of-the-art results for image synthesis, inpainting, and text-to-image tasks. However, they are still in the early stages of generating complex 3D shapes. This work proposes Diffusion-SDF, a generative model for shape completion, single-view reconstruction, and reconstruction of real-scanned point clouds. We use neural signed distance functions (SDFs) as our 3D representation to parameterize the geometry of various signals (e.g., point clouds, 2D images) through neural networks. Neural SDFs are implicit functions and diffusing them amounts to learning the reversal of their neural network weights, which we solve using a custom modulation module. Extensive experiments show that our method is capable of both realistic unconditional generation and conditional generation from partial inputs. This work expands the domain of diffusion models from learning 2D, explicit representations, to 3D, implicit representations.
ActiveRMAP: Radiance Field for Active Mapping And Planning
A high-quality 3D reconstruction of a scene from a collection of 2D images can be achieved through offline/online mapping methods. In this paper, we explore active mapping from the perspective of implicit representations, which have recently produced compelling results in a variety of applications. One of the most popular implicit representations - Neural Radiance Field (NeRF), first demonstrated photorealistic rendering results using multi-layer perceptrons, with promising offline 3D reconstruction as a by-product of the radiance field. More recently, researchers also applied this implicit representation for online reconstruction and localization (i.e. implicit SLAM systems). However, the study on using implicit representation for active vision tasks is still very limited. In this paper, we are particularly interested in applying the neural radiance field for active mapping and planning problems, which are closely coupled tasks in an active system. We, for the first time, present an RGB-only active vision framework using radiance field representation for active 3D reconstruction and planning in an online manner. Specifically, we formulate this joint task as an iterative dual-stage optimization problem, where we alternatively optimize for the radiance field representation and path planning. Experimental results suggest that the proposed method achieves competitive results compared to other offline methods and outperforms active reconstruction methods using NeRFs.
Zero NeRF: Registration with Zero Overlap
We present Zero-NeRF, a projective surface registration method that, to the best of our knowledge, offers the first general solution capable of alignment between scene representations with minimal or zero visual correspondence. To do this, we enforce consistency between visible surfaces of partial and complete reconstructions, which allows us to constrain occluded geometry. We use a NeRF as our surface representation and the NeRF rendering pipeline to perform this alignment. To demonstrate the efficacy of our method, we register real-world scenes from opposite sides with infinitesimal overlaps that cannot be accurately registered using prior methods, and we compare these results against widely used registration methods.
ESLAM: Efficient Dense SLAM System Based on Hybrid Representation of Signed Distance Fields
We present ESLAM, an efficient implicit neural representation method for Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM). ESLAM reads RGB-D frames with unknown camera poses in a sequential manner and incrementally reconstructs the scene representation while estimating the current camera position in the scene. We incorporate the latest advances in Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) into a SLAM system, resulting in an efficient and accurate dense visual SLAM method. Our scene representation consists of multi-scale axis-aligned perpendicular feature planes and shallow decoders that, for each point in the continuous space, decode the interpolated features into Truncated Signed Distance Field (TSDF) and RGB values. Our extensive experiments on three standard datasets, Replica, ScanNet, and TUM RGB-D show that ESLAM improves the accuracy of 3D reconstruction and camera localization of state-of-the-art dense visual SLAM methods by more than 50%, while it runs up to 10 times faster and does not require any pre-training.
An Implicit Parametric Morphable Dental Model
3D Morphable models of the human body capture variations among subjects and are useful in reconstruction and editing applications. Current dental models use an explicit mesh scene representation and model only the teeth, ignoring the gum. In this work, we present the first parametric 3D morphable dental model for both teeth and gum. Our model uses an implicit scene representation and is learned from rigidly aligned scans. It is based on a component-wise representation for each tooth and the gum, together with a learnable latent code for each of such components. It also learns a template shape thus enabling several applications such as segmentation, interpolation, and tooth replacement. Our reconstruction quality is on par with the most advanced global implicit representations while enabling novel applications. Project page: https://vcai.mpi-inf.mpg.de/projects/DMM/
NeuMap: Neural Coordinate Mapping by Auto-Transdecoder for Camera Localization
This paper presents an end-to-end neural mapping method for camera localization, dubbed NeuMap, encoding a whole scene into a grid of latent codes, with which a Transformer-based auto-decoder regresses 3D coordinates of query pixels. State-of-the-art feature matching methods require each scene to be stored as a 3D point cloud with per-point features, consuming several gigabytes of storage per scene. While compression is possible, performance drops significantly at high compression rates. Conversely, coordinate regression methods achieve high compression by storing scene information in a neural network but suffer from reduced robustness. NeuMap combines the advantages of both approaches by utilizing 1) learnable latent codes for efficient scene representation and 2) a scene-agnostic Transformer-based auto-decoder to infer coordinates for query pixels. This scene-agnostic network design learns robust matching priors from large-scale data and enables rapid optimization of codes for new scenes while keeping the network weights fixed. Extensive evaluations on five benchmarks show that NeuMap significantly outperforms other coordinate regression methods and achieves comparable performance to feature matching methods while requiring a much smaller scene representation size. For example, NeuMap achieves 39.1% accuracy in the Aachen night benchmark with only 6MB of data, whereas alternative methods require 100MB or several gigabytes and fail completely under high compression settings. The codes are available at https://github.com/Tangshitao/NeuMap
CNeRV: Content-adaptive Neural Representation for Visual Data
Compression and reconstruction of visual data have been widely studied in the computer vision community, even before the popularization of deep learning. More recently, some have used deep learning to improve or refine existing pipelines, while others have proposed end-to-end approaches, including autoencoders and implicit neural representations, such as SIREN and NeRV. In this work, we propose Neural Visual Representation with Content-adaptive Embedding (CNeRV), which combines the generalizability of autoencoders with the simplicity and compactness of implicit representation. We introduce a novel content-adaptive embedding that is unified, concise, and internally (within-video) generalizable, that compliments a powerful decoder with a single-layer encoder. We match the performance of NeRV, a state-of-the-art implicit neural representation, on the reconstruction task for frames seen during training while far surpassing for frames that are skipped during training (unseen images). To achieve similar reconstruction quality on unseen images, NeRV needs 120x more time to overfit per-frame due to its lack of internal generalization. With the same latent code length and similar model size, CNeRV outperforms autoencoders on reconstruction of both seen and unseen images. We also show promising results for visual data compression. More details can be found in the project pagehttps://haochen-rye.github.io/CNeRV/
Probing for Incremental Parse States in Autoregressive Language Models
Next-word predictions from autoregressive neural language models show remarkable sensitivity to syntax. This work evaluates the extent to which this behavior arises as a result of a learned ability to maintain implicit representations of incremental syntactic structures. We extend work in syntactic probing to the incremental setting and present several probes for extracting incomplete syntactic structure (operationalized through parse states from a stack-based parser) from autoregressive language models. We find that our probes can be used to predict model preferences on ambiguous sentence prefixes and causally intervene on model representations and steer model behavior. This suggests implicit incremental syntactic inferences underlie next-word predictions in autoregressive neural language models.
aiMotive Dataset: A Multimodal Dataset for Robust Autonomous Driving with Long-Range Perception
Autonomous driving is a popular research area within the computer vision research community. Since autonomous vehicles are highly safety-critical, ensuring robustness is essential for real-world deployment. While several public multimodal datasets are accessible, they mainly comprise two sensor modalities (camera, LiDAR) which are not well suited for adverse weather. In addition, they lack far-range annotations, making it harder to train neural networks that are the base of a highway assistant function of an autonomous vehicle. Therefore, we introduce a multimodal dataset for robust autonomous driving with long-range perception. The dataset consists of 176 scenes with synchronized and calibrated LiDAR, camera, and radar sensors covering a 360-degree field of view. The collected data was captured in highway, urban, and suburban areas during daytime, night, and rain and is annotated with 3D bounding boxes with consistent identifiers across frames. Furthermore, we trained unimodal and multimodal baseline models for 3D object detection. Data are available at \url{https://github.com/aimotive/aimotive_dataset}.
AsyncNeRF: Learning Large-scale Radiance Fields from Asynchronous RGB-D Sequences with Time-Pose Function
Large-scale radiance fields are promising mapping tools for smart transportation applications like autonomous driving or drone delivery. But for large-scale scenes, compact synchronized RGB-D cameras are not applicable due to limited sensing range, and using separate RGB and depth sensors inevitably leads to unsynchronized sequences. Inspired by the recent success of self-calibrating radiance field training methods that do not require known intrinsic or extrinsic parameters, we propose the first solution that self-calibrates the mismatch between RGB and depth frames. We leverage the important domain-specific fact that RGB and depth frames are actually sampled from the same trajectory and develop a novel implicit network called the time-pose function. Combining it with a large-scale radiance field leads to an architecture that cascades two implicit representation networks. To validate its effectiveness, we construct a diverse and photorealistic dataset that covers various RGB-D mismatch scenarios. Through a comprehensive benchmarking on this dataset, we demonstrate the flexibility of our method in different scenarios and superior performance over applicable prior counterparts. Codes, data, and models will be made publicly available.
Improved Dynamic Colouring of Sparse Graphs
Given a dynamic graph subject to edge insertions and deletions, we show how to update an implicit representation of a proper vertex colouring, such that colours of vertices are computable upon query time. We give a deterministic algorithm that uses $O(\alpha^2)$ colours for a dynamic graph of arboricity $\alpha$, and a randomised algorithm that uses $O(\min\{\alpha \log \alpha, \alpha \log \log \log n\})$ colours in the oblivious adversary model. Our deterministic algorithm has update- and query times polynomial in $\alpha$ and $\log n$, and our randomised algorithm has amortised update- and query time that with high probability is polynomial in $\log n$ with no dependency on the arboricity.   Thus, we improve the number of colours exponentially compared to the state-of-the art for implicit colouring, namely from $O(2^\alpha)$ colours, and we approach the theoretical lower bound of $\Omega(\alpha)$ for this arboricity-parameterised approach. Simultaneously, our randomised algorithm improves the update- and query time to run in time solely polynomial in $\log n$ with no dependency on $\alpha$. Our algorithms are fully adaptive to the current value of the dynamic arboricity at query or update time.
QRF: Implicit Neural Representations with Quantum Radiance Fields
Photorealistic rendering of real-world scenes is a tremendous challenge with a wide range of applications, including mixed reality (MR), and virtual reality (VR). Neural networks, which have long been investigated in the context of solving differential equations, have previously been introduced as implicit representations for photorealistic rendering. However, realistic rendering using classic computing is challenging because it requires time-consuming optical ray marching, and suffer computational bottlenecks due to the curse of dimensionality. In this paper, we propose Quantum Radiance Fields (QRF), which integrate the quantum circuit, quantum activation function, and quantum volume rendering for implicit scene representation. The results indicate that QRF not only exploits the advantage of quantum computing, such as high speed, fast convergence, and high parallelism, but also ensure high quality of volume rendering.
Computational anatomy atlas using multilayer perceptron with Lipschitz regularization
A computational anatomy atlas is a set of internal organ geometries. It is based on data of real patients and complemented with virtual cases by using a some numerical approach. Atlases are in demand in computational physiology, especially in cardiological and neurophysiological applications. Usually, atlas generation uses explicit object representation, such as voxel models or surface meshes. In this paper, we propose a method of atlas generation using an implicit representation of 3D objects. Our approach has two key stages. The first stage converts voxel models of segmented organs to implicit form using the usual multilayer perceptron. This stage smooths the model and reduces memory consumption. The second stage uses a multilayer perceptron with Lipschitz regularization. This neural network provides a smooth transition between implicitly defined 3D geometries. Our work shows examples of models of the left and right human ventricles. All code and data for this work are open.
nerf2nerf: Pairwise Registration of Neural Radiance Fields
We introduce a technique for pairwise registration of neural fields that extends classical optimization-based local registration (i.e. ICP) to operate on Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) -- neural 3D scene representations trained from collections of calibrated images. NeRF does not decompose illumination and color, so to make registration invariant to illumination, we introduce the concept of a ''surface field'' -- a field distilled from a pre-trained NeRF model that measures the likelihood of a point being on the surface of an object. We then cast nerf2nerf registration as a robust optimization that iteratively seeks a rigid transformation that aligns the surface fields of the two scenes. We evaluate the effectiveness of our technique by introducing a dataset of pre-trained NeRF scenes -- our synthetic scenes enable quantitative evaluations and comparisons to classical registration techniques, while our real scenes demonstrate the validity of our technique in real-world scenarios. Additional results available at: https://nerf2nerf.github.io
Leveraging commonsense for object localisation in partial scenes
We propose an end-to-end solution to address the problem of object localisation in partial scenes, where we aim to estimate the position of an object in an unknown area given only a partial 3D scan of the scene. We propose a novel scene representation to facilitate the geometric reasoning, Directed Spatial Commonsense Graph (D-SCG), a spatial scene graph that is enriched with additional concept nodes from a commonsense knowledge base. Specifically, the nodes of D-SCG represent the scene objects and the edges are their relative positions. Each object node is then connected via different commonsense relationships to a set of concept nodes. With the proposed graph-based scene representation, we estimate the unknown position of the target object using a Graph Neural Network that implements a novel attentional message passing mechanism. The network first predicts the relative positions between the target object and each visible object by learning a rich representation of the objects via aggregating both the object nodes and the concept nodes in D-SCG. These relative positions then are merged to obtain the final position. We evaluate our method using Partial ScanNet, improving the state-of-the-art by 5.9% in terms of the localisation accuracy at a 8x faster training speed.
Learning Neural Implicit Representations with Surface Signal Parameterizations
Neural implicit surface representations have recently emerged as popular alternative to explicit 3D object encodings, such as polygonal meshes, tabulated points, or voxels. While significant work has improved the geometric fidelity of these representations, much less attention is given to their final appearance. Traditional explicit object representations commonly couple the 3D shape data with auxiliary surface-mapped image data, such as diffuse color textures and fine-scale geometric details in normal maps that typically require a mapping of the 3D surface onto a plane, i.e., a surface parameterization; implicit representations, on the other hand, cannot be easily textured due to lack of configurable surface parameterization. Inspired by this digital content authoring methodology, we design a neural network architecture that implicitly encodes the underlying surface parameterization suitable for appearance data. As such, our model remains compatible with existing mesh-based digital content with appearance data. Motivated by recent work that overfits compact networks to individual 3D objects, we present a new weight-encoded neural implicit representation that extends the capability of neural implicit surfaces to enable various common and important applications of texture mapping. Our method outperforms reasonable baselines and state-of-the-art alternatives.
TITAN: Bringing The Deep Image Prior to Implicit Representations
We study the interpolation capabilities of implicit neural representations (INRs) of images. In principle, INRs promise a number of advantages, such as continuous derivatives and arbitrary sampling, being freed from the restrictions of a raster grid. However, empirically, INRs have been observed to poorly interpolate between the pixels of the fit image; in other words, they do not inherently possess a suitable prior for natural images. In this paper, we propose to address and improve INRs' interpolation capabilities by explicitly integrating image prior information into the INR architecture via deep decoder, a specific implementation of the deep image prior (DIP). Our method, which we call TITAN, leverages a residual connection from the input which enables integrating the principles of the grid-based DIP into the grid-free INR. Through super-resolution and computed tomography experiments, we demonstrate that our method significantly improves upon classic INRs, thanks to the induced natural image bias. We also find that by constraining the weights to be sparse, image quality and sharpness are enhanced, increasing the Lipschitz constant.
gCoRF: Generative Compositional Radiance Fields
3D generative models of objects enable photorealistic image synthesis with 3D control. Existing methods model the scene as a global scene representation, ignoring the compositional aspect of the scene. Compositional reasoning can enable a wide variety of editing applications, in addition to enabling generalizable 3D reasoning. In this paper, we present a compositional generative model, where each semantic part of the object is represented as an independent 3D representation learned from only in-the-wild 2D data. We start with a global generative model (GAN) and learn to decompose it into different semantic parts using supervision from 2D segmentation masks. We then learn to composite independently sampled parts in order to create coherent global scenes. Different parts can be independently sampled while keeping the rest of the object fixed. We evaluate our method on a wide variety of objects and parts and demonstrate editing applications.
NeRFPlayer: A Streamable Dynamic Scene Representation with Decomposed Neural Radiance Fields
Visually exploring in a real-world 4D spatiotemporal space freely in VR has been a long-term quest. The task is especially appealing when only a few or even single RGB cameras are used for capturing the dynamic scene. To this end, we present an efficient framework capable of fast reconstruction, compact modeling, and streamable rendering. First, we propose to decompose the 4D spatiotemporal space according to temporal characteristics. Points in the 4D space are associated with probabilities of belonging to three categories: static, deforming, and new areas. Each area is represented and regularized by a separate neural field. Second, we propose a hybrid representations based feature streaming scheme for efficiently modeling the neural fields. Our approach, coined NeRFPlayer, is evaluated on dynamic scenes captured by single hand-held cameras and multi-camera arrays, achieving comparable or superior rendering performance in terms of quality and speed comparable to recent state-of-the-art methods, achieving reconstruction in 10 seconds per frame and interactive rendering.
Vox-Fusion: Dense Tracking and Mapping with Voxel-based Neural Implicit Representation
In this work, we present a dense tracking and mapping system named Vox-Fusion, which seamlessly fuses neural implicit representations with traditional volumetric fusion methods. Our approach is inspired by the recently developed implicit mapping and positioning system and further extends the idea so that it can be freely applied to practical scenarios. Specifically, we leverage a voxel-based neural implicit surface representation to encode and optimize the scene inside each voxel. Furthermore, we adopt an octree-based structure to divide the scene and support dynamic expansion, enabling our system to track and map arbitrary scenes without knowing the environment like in previous works. Moreover, we proposed a high-performance multi-process framework to speed up the method, thus supporting some applications that require real-time performance. The evaluation results show that our methods can achieve better accuracy and completeness than previous methods. We also show that our Vox-Fusion can be used in augmented reality and virtual reality applications. Our source code is publicly available at https://github.com/zju3dv/Vox-Fusion.
Single Image Super-Resolution via a Dual Interactive Implicit Neural Network
In this paper, we introduce a novel implicit neural network for the task of single image super-resolution at arbitrary scale factors. To do this, we represent an image as a decoding function that maps locations in the image along with their associated features to their reciprocal pixel attributes. Since the pixel locations are continuous in this representation, our method can refer to any location in an image of varying resolution. To retrieve an image of a particular resolution, we apply a decoding function to a grid of locations each of which refers to the center of a pixel in the output image. In contrast to other techniques, our dual interactive neural network decouples content and positional features. As a result, we obtain a fully implicit representation of the image that solves the super-resolution problem at (real-valued) elective scales using a single model. We demonstrate the efficacy and flexibility of our approach against the state of the art on publicly available benchmark datasets.
Coordinates Are NOT Lonely -- Codebook Prior Helps Implicit Neural 3D Representations
Implicit neural 3D representation has achieved impressive results in surface or scene reconstruction and novel view synthesis, which typically uses the coordinate-based multi-layer perceptrons (MLPs) to learn a continuous scene representation. However, existing approaches, such as Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) and its variants, usually require dense input views (i.e. 50-150) to obtain decent results. To relive the over-dependence on massive calibrated images and enrich the coordinate-based feature representation, we explore injecting the prior information into the coordinate-based network and introduce a novel coordinate-based model, CoCo-INR, for implicit neural 3D representation. The cores of our method are two attention modules: codebook attention and coordinate attention. The former extracts the useful prototypes containing rich geometry and appearance information from the prior codebook, and the latter propagates such prior information into each coordinate and enriches its feature representation for a scene or object surface. With the help of the prior information, our method can render 3D views with more photo-realistic appearance and geometries than the current methods using fewer calibrated images available. Experiments on various scene reconstruction datasets, including DTU and BlendedMVS, and the full 3D head reconstruction dataset, H3DS, demonstrate the robustness under fewer input views and fine detail-preserving capability of our proposed method.
S$^3$-NeRF: Neural Reflectance Field from Shading and Shadow under a Single Viewpoint
In this paper, we address the "dual problem" of multi-view scene reconstruction in which we utilize single-view images captured under different point lights to learn a neural scene representation. Different from existing single-view methods which can only recover a 2.5D scene representation (i.e., a normal / depth map for the visible surface), our method learns a neural reflectance field to represent the 3D geometry and BRDFs of a scene. Instead of relying on multi-view photo-consistency, our method exploits two information-rich monocular cues, namely shading and shadow, to infer scene geometry. Experiments on multiple challenging datasets show that our method is capable of recovering 3D geometry, including both visible and invisible parts, of a scene from single-view images. Thanks to the neural reflectance field representation, our method is robust to depth discontinuities. It supports applications like novel-view synthesis and relighting. Our code and model can be found at https://ywq.github.io/s3nerf.
SPIDR: SDF-based Neural Point Fields for Illumination and Deformation
Neural radiance fields (NeRFs) have recently emerged as a promising approach for 3D reconstruction and novel view synthesis. However, NeRF-based methods encode shape, reflectance, and illumination implicitly and this makes it challenging for users to manipulate these properties in the rendered images explicitly. Existing approaches only enable limited editing of the scene and deformation of the geometry. Furthermore, no existing work enables accurate scene illumination after object deformation. In this work, we introduce SPIDR, a new hybrid neural SDF representation. SPIDR combines point cloud and neural implicit representations to enable the reconstruction of higher quality object surfaces for geometry deformation and lighting estimation. meshes and surfaces for object deformation and lighting estimation. To more accurately capture environment illumination for scene relighting, we propose a novel neural implicit model to learn environment light. To enable more accurate illumination updates after deformation, we use the shadow mapping technique to approximate the light visibility updates caused by geometry editing. We demonstrate the effectiveness of SPIDR in enabling high quality geometry editing with more accurate updates to the illumination of the scene.
NeuralRoom: Geometry-Constrained Neural Implicit Surfaces for Indoor Scene Reconstruction
We present a novel neural surface reconstruction method called NeuralRoom for reconstructing room-sized indoor scenes directly from a set of 2D images. Recently, implicit neural representations have become a promising way to reconstruct surfaces from multiview images due to their high-quality results and simplicity. However, implicit neural representations usually cannot reconstruct indoor scenes well because they suffer severe shape-radiance ambiguity. We assume that the indoor scene consists of texture-rich and flat texture-less regions. In texture-rich regions, the multiview stereo can obtain accurate results. In the flat area, normal estimation networks usually obtain a good normal estimation. Based on the above observations, we reduce the possible spatial variation range of implicit neural surfaces by reliable geometric priors to alleviate shape-radiance ambiguity. Specifically, we use multiview stereo results to limit the NeuralRoom optimization space and then use reliable geometric priors to guide NeuralRoom training. Then the NeuralRoom would produce a neural scene representation that can render an image consistent with the input training images. In addition, we propose a smoothing method called perturbation-residual restrictions to improve the accuracy and completeness of the flat region, which assumes that the sampling points in a local surface should have the same normal and similar distance to the observation center. Experiments on the ScanNet dataset show that our method can reconstruct the texture-less area of indoor scenes while maintaining the accuracy of detail. We also apply NeuralRoom to more advanced multiview reconstruction algorithms and significantly improve their reconstruction quality.
GraspNeRF: Multiview-based 6-DoF Grasp Detection for Transparent and Specular Objects Using Generalizable NeRF
In this work, we tackle 6-DoF grasp detection for transparent and specular objects, which is an important yet challenging problem in vision-based robotic systems, due to the failure of depth cameras in sensing their geometry. We, for the first time, propose a multiview RGB-based 6-DoF grasp detection network, GraspNeRF, that leverages the generalizable neural radiance field (NeRF) to achieve material-agnostic object grasping in clutter. Compared to the existing NeRF-based 3-DoF grasp detection methods that rely on densely captured input images and time-consuming per-scene optimization, our system can perform zero-shot NeRF construction with sparse RGB inputs and reliably detect 6-DoF grasps, both in real-time. The proposed framework jointly learns generalizable NeRF and grasp detection in an end-to-end manner, optimizing the scene representation construction for the grasping. For training data, we generate a large-scale photorealistic domain-randomized synthetic dataset of grasping in cluttered tabletop scenes that enables direct transfer to the real world. Our extensive experiments in synthetic and real-world environments demonstrate that our method significantly outperforms all the baselines in all the experiments while remaining in real-time. Project page can be found at https://pku-epic.github.io/GraspNeRF
AniFaceGAN: Animatable 3D-Aware Face Image Generation for Video Avatars
Although 2D generative models have made great progress in face image generation and animation, they often suffer from undesirable artifacts such as 3D inconsistency when rendering images from different camera viewpoints. This prevents them from synthesizing video animations indistinguishable from real ones. Recently, 3D-aware GANs extend 2D GANs for explicit disentanglement of camera pose by leveraging 3D scene representations. These methods can well preserve the 3D consistency of the generated images across different views, yet they cannot achieve fine-grained control over other attributes, among which facial expression control is arguably the most useful and desirable for face animation. In this paper, we propose an animatable 3D-aware GAN for multiview consistent face animation generation. The key idea is to decompose the 3D representation of the 3D-aware GAN into a template field and a deformation field, where the former represents different identities with a canonical expression, and the latter characterizes expression variations of each identity. To achieve meaningful control over facial expressions via deformation, we propose a 3D-level imitative learning scheme between the generator and a parametric 3D face model during adversarial training of the 3D-aware GAN. This helps our method achieve high-quality animatable face image generation with strong visual 3D consistency, even though trained with only unstructured 2D images. Extensive experiments demonstrate our superior performance over prior works. Project page: https://yuewuhkust.github.io/AniFaceGAN
RTSDF: Real-time Signed Distance Fields for Soft Shadow Approximation in Games
Signed distance fields (SDFs) are a form of surface representation widely used in computer graphics, having applications in rendering, collision detection and modelling. In interactive media such as games, high-resolution SDFs are commonly produced offline and subsequently loaded into the application, representing rigid meshes only. This work develops a novel technique that combines jump flooding and ray tracing to generate approximate SDFs in real-time. Our approach can produce relatively accurate scene representation for rendering soft shadows while maintaining interactive frame rates. We extend our previous work with details on the design and implementation as well as visual quality and performance evaluation of the technique.
Multi-Object Navigation with dynamically learned neural implicit representations
Understanding and mapping a new environment are core abilities of any autonomously navigating agent. While classical robotics usually estimates maps in a stand-alone manner with SLAM variants, which maintain a topological or metric representation, end-to-end learning of navigation keeps some form of memory in a neural network. Networks are typically imbued with inductive biases, which can range from vectorial representations to birds-eye metric tensors or topological structures. In this work, we propose to structure neural networks with two neural implicit representations, which are learned dynamically during each episode and map the content of the scene: (i) the Semantic Finder predicts the position of a previously seen queried object; (ii) the Occupancy and Exploration Implicit Representation encapsulates information about explored area and obstacles, and is queried with a novel global read mechanism which directly maps from function space to a usable embedding space. Both representations are leveraged by an agent trained with Reinforcement Learning (RL) and learned online during each episode. We evaluate the agent on Multi-Object Navigation and show the high impact of using neural implicit representations as a memory source.
Transformer-based Localization from Embodied Dialog with Large-scale Pre-training
We address the challenging task of Localization via Embodied Dialog (LED). Given a dialog from two agents, an Observer navigating through an unknown environment and a Locator who is attempting to identify the Observer's location, the goal is to predict the Observer's final location in a map. We develop a novel LED-Bert architecture and present an effective pretraining strategy. We show that a graph-based scene representation is more effective than the top-down 2D maps used in prior works. Our approach outperforms previous baselines.
Data augmentation for NeRF: a geometric consistent solution based on view morphing
NeRF aims to learn a continuous neural scene representation by using a finite set of input images taken from different viewpoints. The fewer the number of viewpoints, the higher the likelihood of overfitting on them. This paper mitigates such limitation by presenting a novel data augmentation approach to generate geometrically consistent image transitions between viewpoints using view morphing. View morphing is a highly versatile technique that does not requires any prior knowledge about the 3D scene because it is based on general principles of projective geometry. A key novelty of our method is to use the very same depths predicted by NeRF to generate the image transitions that are then added to NeRF training. We experimentally show that this procedure enables NeRF to improve the quality of its synthesised novel views in the case of datasets with few training viewpoints. We improve PSNR up to 1.8dB and 10.5dB when eight and four views are used for training, respectively. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first data augmentation strategy for NeRF that explicitly synthesises additional new input images to improve the model generalisation.
VIRDO++: Real-World, Visuo-tactile Dynamics and Perception of Deformable Objects
Deformable objects manipulation can benefit from representations that seamlessly integrate vision and touch while handling occlusions. In this work, we present a novel approach for, and real-world demonstration of, multimodal visuo-tactile state-estimation and dynamics prediction for deformable objects. Our approach, VIRDO++, builds on recent progress in multimodal neural implicit representations for deformable object state-estimation [1] via a new formulation for deformation dynamics and a complementary state-estimation algorithm that (i) maintains a belief over deformations, and (ii) enables practical real-world application by removing the need for privileged contact information. In the context of two real-world robotic tasks, we show:(i) high-fidelity cross-modal state-estimation and prediction of deformable objects from partial visuo-tactile feedback, and (ii) generalization to unseen objects and contact formations.
A Simple Plugin for Transforming Images to Arbitrary Scales
Existing models on super-resolution often specialized for one scale, fundamentally limiting their use in practical scenarios. In this paper, we aim to develop a general plugin that can be inserted into existing super-resolution models, conveniently augmenting their ability towards Arbitrary Resolution Image Scaling, thus termed ARIS. We make the following contributions: (i) we propose a transformer-based plugin module, which uses spatial coordinates as query, iteratively attend the low-resolution image feature through cross-attention, and output visual feature for the queried spatial location, resembling an implicit representation for images; (ii) we introduce a novel self-supervised training scheme, that exploits consistency constraints to effectively augment the model's ability for upsampling images towards unseen scales, i.e. ground-truth high-resolution images are not available; (iii) without loss of generality, we inject the proposed ARIS plugin module into several existing models, namely, IPT, SwinIR, and HAT, showing that the resulting models can not only maintain their original performance on fixed scale factor but also extrapolate to unseen scales, substantially outperforming existing any-scale super-resolution models on standard benchmarks, e.g. Urban100, DIV2K, etc.
IR-MCL: Implicit Representation-Based Online Global Localization
Determining the state of a mobile robot is an essential building block of robot navigation systems. In this paper, we address the problem of estimating the robots pose in an indoor environment using 2D LiDAR data and investigate how modern environment models can improve gold standard Monte-Carlo localization (MCL) systems. We propose a neural occupancy field to implicitly represent the scene using a neural network. With the pretrained network, we can synthesize 2D LiDAR scans for an arbitrary robot pose through volume rendering. Based on the implicit representation, we can obtain the similarity between a synthesized and actual scan as an observation model and integrate it into an MCL system to perform accurate localization. We evaluate our approach on self-recorded datasets and three publicly available ones. We show that we can accurately and efficiently localize a robot using our approach surpassing the localization performance of state-of-the-art methods. The experiments suggest that the presented implicit representation is able to predict more accurate 2D LiDAR scans leading to an improved observation model for our particle filter-based localization. The code of our approach will be available at: https://github.com/PRBonn/ir-mcl.
Neural Matching Fields: Implicit Representation of Matching Fields for Visual Correspondence
Existing pipelines of semantic correspondence commonly include extracting high-level semantic features for the invariance against intra-class variations and background clutters. This architecture, however, inevitably results in a low-resolution matching field that additionally requires an ad-hoc interpolation process as a post-processing for converting it into a high-resolution one, certainly limiting the overall performance of matching results. To overcome this, inspired by recent success of implicit neural representation, we present a novel method for semantic correspondence, called Neural Matching Field (NeMF). However, complicacy and high-dimensionality of a 4D matching field are the major hindrances, which we propose a cost embedding network to process a coarse cost volume to use as a guidance for establishing high-precision matching field through the following fully-connected network. Nevertheless, learning a high-dimensional matching field remains challenging mainly due to computational complexity, since a naive exhaustive inference would require querying from all pixels in the 4D space to infer pixel-wise correspondences. To overcome this, we propose adequate training and inference procedures, which in the training phase, we randomly sample matching candidates and in the inference phase, we iteratively performs PatchMatch-based inference and coordinate optimization at test time. With these combined, competitive results are attained on several standard benchmarks for semantic correspondence. Code and pre-trained weights are available at https://ku-cvlab.github.io/NeMF/.
NeuralMeshing: Differentiable Meshing of Implicit Neural Representations
The generation of triangle meshes from point clouds, i.e. meshing, is a core task in computer graphics and computer vision. Traditional techniques directly construct a surface mesh using local decision heuristics, while some recent methods based on neural implicit representations try to leverage data-driven approaches for this meshing process. However, it is challenging to define a learnable representation for triangle meshes of unknown topology and size and for this reason, neural implicit representations rely on non-differentiable post-processing in order to extract the final triangle mesh. In this work, we propose a novel differentiable meshing algorithm for extracting surface meshes from neural implicit representations. Our method produces the mesh in an iterative fashion, which makes it applicable to shapes of various scales and adaptive to the local curvature of the shape. Furthermore, our method produces meshes with regular tessellation patterns and fewer triangle faces compared to existing methods. Experiments demonstrate the comparable reconstruction performance and favorable mesh properties over baselines.
SHINE-Mapping: Large-Scale 3D Mapping Using Sparse Hierarchical Implicit Neural Representations
Accurate mapping of large-scale environments is an essential building block of most outdoor autonomous systems. Challenges of traditional mapping methods include the balance between memory consumption and mapping accuracy. This paper addresses the problem of achieving large-scale 3D reconstruction using implicit representations built from 3D LiDAR measurements. We learn and store implicit features through an octree-based, hierarchical structure, which is sparse and extensible. The implicit features can be turned into signed distance values through a shallow neural network. We leverage binary cross entropy loss to optimize the local features with the 3D measurements as supervision. Based on our implicit representation, we design an incremental mapping system with regularization to tackle the issue of forgetting in continual learning. Our experiments show that our 3D reconstructions are more accurate, complete, and memory-efficient than current state-of-the-art 3D mapping methods.
