Yes, we CANN: Constrained Approximate Nearest Neighbors for local feature-based visual localization
Large-scale visual localization systems continue to rely on 3D point clouds built from image collections using structure-from-motion. While the 3D points in these models are represented using local image features, directly matching a query image's local features against the point cloud is challenging due to the scale of the nearest-neighbor search problem. Many recent approaches to visual localization have thus proposed a hybrid method, where first a global (per image) embedding is used to retrieve a small subset of database images, and local features of the query are matched only against those. It seems to have become common belief that global embeddings are critical for said image-retrieval in visual localization, despite the significant downside of having to compute two feature types for each query image. In this paper, we take a step back from this assumption and propose Constrained Approximate Nearest Neighbors (CANN), a joint solution of k-nearest-neighbors across both the geometry and appearance space using only local features. We first derive the theoretical foundation for k-nearest-neighbor retrieval across multiple metrics and then showcase how CANN improves visual localization. Our experiments on public localization benchmarks demonstrate that our method significantly outperforms both state-of-the-art global feature-based retrieval and approaches using local feature aggregation schemes. Moreover, it is an order of magnitude faster in both index and query time than feature aggregation schemes for these datasets. Code will be released.
Prompt Performance Prediction for Generative IR
The ability to predict the performance of a query in Information Retrieval (IR) systems has been a longstanding challenge. In this paper, we introduce a novel task called "Prompt Performance Prediction" that aims to predict the performance of a query, referred to as a prompt, before obtaining the actual search results. The context of our task leverages a generative model as an IR engine to evaluate the prompts' performance on image retrieval tasks. We demonstrate the plausibility of our task by measuring the correlation coefficient between predicted and actual performance scores across three datasets containing pairs of prompts and generated images. Our results show promising performance prediction capabilities, suggesting potential applications for optimizing generative IR systems.
Graph Convolution Based Efficient Re-Ranking for Visual Retrieval
Visual retrieval tasks such as image retrieval and person re-identification (Re-ID) aim at effectively and thoroughly searching images with similar content or the same identity. After obtaining retrieved examples, re-ranking is a widely adopted post-processing step to reorder and improve the initial retrieval results by making use of the contextual information from semantically neighboring samples. Prevailing re-ranking approaches update distance metrics and mostly rely on inefficient crosscheck set comparison operations while computing expanded neighbors based distances. In this work, we present an efficient re-ranking method which refines initial retrieval results by updating features. Specifically, we reformulate re-ranking based on Graph Convolution Networks (GCN) and propose a novel Graph Convolution based Re-ranking (GCR) for visual retrieval tasks via feature propagation. To accelerate computation for large-scale retrieval, a decentralized and synchronous feature propagation algorithm which supports parallel or distributed computing is introduced. In particular, the plain GCR is extended for cross-camera retrieval and an improved feature propagation formulation is presented to leverage affinity relationships across different cameras. It is also extended for video-based retrieval, and Graph Convolution based Re-ranking for Video (GCRV) is proposed by mathematically deriving a novel profile vector generation method for the tracklet. Without bells and whistles, the proposed approaches achieve state-of-the-art performances on seven benchmark datasets from three different tasks, i.e., image retrieval, person Re-ID and video-based person Re-ID.
GeneCIS: A Benchmark for General Conditional Image Similarity
We argue that there are many notions of 'similarity' and that models, like humans, should be able to adapt to these dynamically. This contrasts with most representation learning methods, supervised or self-supervised, which learn a fixed embedding function and hence implicitly assume a single notion of similarity. For instance, models trained on ImageNet are biased towards object categories, while a user might prefer the model to focus on colors, textures or specific elements in the scene. In this paper, we propose the GeneCIS ('genesis') benchmark, which measures models' ability to adapt to a range of similarity conditions. Extending prior work, our benchmark is designed for zero-shot evaluation only, and hence considers an open-set of similarity conditions. We find that baselines from powerful CLIP models struggle on GeneCIS and that performance on the benchmark is only weakly correlated with ImageNet accuracy, suggesting that simply scaling existing methods is not fruitful. We further propose a simple, scalable solution based on automatically mining information from existing image-caption datasets. We find our method offers a substantial boost over the baselines on GeneCIS, and further improves zero-shot performance on related image retrieval benchmarks. In fact, though evaluated zero-shot, our model surpasses state-of-the-art supervised models on MIT-States. Project page at https://sgvaze.github.io/genecis/.
MOFI: Learning Image Representations from Noisy Entity Annotated Images
We present MOFI, a new vision foundation model designed to learn image representations from noisy entity annotated images. MOFI differs from previous work in two key aspects: ($i$) pre-training data, and ($ii$) training recipe. Regarding data, we introduce a new approach to automatically assign entity labels to images from noisy image-text pairs. Our approach involves employing a named entity recognition model to extract entities from the alt-text, and then using a CLIP model to select the correct entities as labels of the paired image. The approach is simple, does not require costly human annotation, and can be readily scaled up to billions of image-text pairs mined from the web. Through this method, we have created Image-to-Entities (I2E), a new large-scale dataset with 1 billion images and 2 million distinct entities, covering rich visual concepts in the wild. Building upon the I2E dataset, we study different training recipes, including supervised pre-training, contrastive pre-training, and multi-task learning. For constrastive pre-training, we treat entity names as free-form text, and further enrich them with entity descriptions. Experiments show that supervised pre-training with large-scale fine-grained entity labels is highly effective for image retrieval tasks, and multi-task training further improves the performance. The final MOFI model achieves 86.66% mAP on the challenging GPR1200 dataset, surpassing the previous state-of-the-art performance of 72.19% from OpenAI's CLIP model. Further experiments on zero-shot and linear probe image classification also show that MOFI outperforms a CLIP model trained on the original image-text data, demonstrating the effectiveness of the I2E dataset in learning strong image representations.
Zero-shot Composed Text-Image Retrieval
In this paper, we consider the problem of composed image retrieval (CIR), it aims to train a model that can fuse multi-modal information, e.g., text and images, to accurately retrieve images that match the query, extending the user's expression ability. We make the following contributions: (i) we initiate a scalable pipeline to automatically construct datasets for training CIR model, by simply exploiting a large-scale dataset of image-text pairs, e.g., a subset of LAION-5B; (ii) we introduce a transformer-based adaptive aggregation model, TransAgg, which employs a simple yet efficient fusion mechanism, to adaptively combine information from diverse modalities; (iii) we conduct extensive ablation studies to investigate the usefulness of our proposed data construction procedure, and the effectiveness of core components in TransAgg; (iv) when evaluating on the publicly available benckmarks under the zero-shot scenario, i.e., training on the automatically constructed datasets, then directly conduct inference on target downstream datasets, e.g., CIRR and FashionIQ, our proposed approach either performs on par with or significantly outperforms the existing state-of-the-art (SOTA) models. Project page: https://code-kunkun.github.io/ZS-CIR/
Sticker820K: Empowering Interactive Retrieval with Stickers
Stickers have become a ubiquitous part of modern-day communication, conveying complex emotions through visual imagery. To facilitate the development of more powerful algorithms for analyzing stickers, we propose a large-scale Chinese sticker dataset, namely Sticker820K, which consists of 820k image-text pairs. Each sticker has rich and high-quality textual annotations, including descriptions, optical characters, emotional labels, and style classifications. Although vision-language tasks in the domain of natural images have been well studied, directly applying the those models, such as CLIP, to sticker data is not an optimal solution due to the discrepant nature between natural and emotive image data. Therefore, we propose StickerCLIP as a benchmark model on the Sticker820K dataset. For the text-to-image retrieval task, our StickerCLIP demonstrates strong superiority over the CLIP, which achieves an absolute gain of 66.0\% in mean recall on the Sticker820K test set. Additionally, we endeavor to extend the recently popularized LLM by means of prompt tuning, integrating its ability for sticker retrieval and allowing users to retrieve stickers through instructions. We validate the feasibility of this method, demonstrating the immense potential of prompt tuning in expanding LLM abilities while not affecting the quality of upstream tasks.
Self-Enhancement Improves Text-Image Retrieval in Foundation Visual-Language Models
The emergence of cross-modal foundation models has introduced numerous approaches grounded in text-image retrieval. However, on some domain-specific retrieval tasks, these models fail to focus on the key attributes required. To address this issue, we propose a self-enhancement framework, A^{3}R, based on the CLIP-ViT/G-14, one of the largest cross-modal models. First, we perform an Attribute Augmentation strategy to enrich the textual description for fine-grained representation before model learning. Then, we propose an Adaption Re-ranking method to unify the representation space of textual query and candidate images and re-rank candidate images relying on the adapted query after model learning. The proposed framework is validated to achieve a salient improvement over the baseline and other teams' solutions in the cross-modal image retrieval track of the 1st foundation model challenge without introducing any additional samples. The code is available at \url{https://github.com/CapricornGuang/A3R}.
Relieving Triplet Ambiguity: Consensus Network for Language-Guided Image Retrieval
Language-guided image retrieval enables users to search for images and interact with the retrieval system more naturally and expressively by using a reference image and a relative caption as a query. Most existing studies mainly focus on designing image-text composition architecture to extract discriminative visual-linguistic relations. Despite great success, we identify an inherent problem that obstructs the extraction of discriminative features and considerably compromises model training: \textbf{triplet ambiguity}. This problem stems from the annotation process wherein annotators view only one triplet at a time. As a result, they often describe simple attributes, such as color, while neglecting fine-grained details like location and style. This leads to multiple false-negative candidates matching the same modification text. We propose a novel Consensus Network (Css-Net) that self-adaptively learns from noisy triplets to minimize the negative effects of triplet ambiguity. Inspired by the psychological finding that groups perform better than individuals, Css-Net comprises 1) a consensus module featuring four distinct compositors that generate diverse fused image-text embeddings and 2) a Kullback-Leibler divergence loss, which fosters learning among the compositors, enabling them to reduce biases learned from noisy triplets and reach a consensus. The decisions from four compositors are weighted during evaluation to further achieve consensus. Comprehensive experiments on three datasets demonstrate that Css-Net can alleviate triplet ambiguity, achieving competitive performance on benchmarks, such as $+2.77\%$ R@10 and $+6.67\%$ R@50 on FashionIQ.
Class Anchor Margin Loss for Content-Based Image Retrieval
The performance of neural networks in content-based image retrieval (CBIR) is highly influenced by the chosen loss (objective) function. The majority of objective functions for neural models can be divided into metric learning and statistical learning. Metric learning approaches require a pair mining strategy that often lacks efficiency, while statistical learning approaches are not generating highly compact features due to their indirect feature optimization. To this end, we propose a novel repeller-attractor loss that falls in the metric learning paradigm, yet directly optimizes for the L2 metric without the need of generating pairs. Our loss is formed of three components. One leading objective ensures that the learned features are attracted to each designated learnable class anchor. The second loss component regulates the anchors and forces them to be separable by a margin, while the third objective ensures that the anchors do not collapse to zero. Furthermore, we develop a more efficient two-stage retrieval system by harnessing the learned class anchors during the first stage of the retrieval process, eliminating the need of comparing the query with every image in the database. We establish a set of four datasets (CIFAR-100, Food-101, SVHN, and Tiny ImageNet) and evaluate the proposed objective in the context of few-shot and full-set training on the CBIR task, by using both convolutional and transformer architectures. Compared to existing objective functions, our empirical evidence shows that the proposed objective is generating superior and more consistent results.
Chatting Makes Perfect -- Chat-based Image Retrieval
Chats emerge as an effective user-friendly approach for information retrieval, and are successfully employed in many domains, such as customer service, healthcare, and finance. However, existing image retrieval approaches typically address the case of a single query-to-image round, and the use of chats for image retrieval has been mostly overlooked. In this work, we introduce ChatIR: a chat-based image retrieval system that engages in a conversation with the user to elicit information, in addition to an initial query, in order to clarify the user's search intent. Motivated by the capabilities of today's foundation models, we leverage Large Language Models to generate follow-up questions to an initial image description. These questions form a dialog with the user in order to retrieve the desired image from a large corpus. In this study, we explore the capabilities of such a system tested on a large dataset and reveal that engaging in a dialog yields significant gains in image retrieval. We start by building an evaluation pipeline from an existing manually generated dataset and explore different modules and training strategies for ChatIR. Our comparison includes strong baselines derived from related applications trained with Reinforcement Learning. Our system is capable of retrieving the target image from a pool of 50K images with over 78% success rate after 5 dialogue rounds, compared to 75% when questions are asked by humans, and 64% for a single shot text-to-image retrieval. Extensive evaluations reveal the strong capabilities and examine the limitations of CharIR under different settings.
Probabilistic Uncertainty Quantification of Prediction Models with Application to Visual Localization
The uncertainty quantification of prediction models (e.g., neural networks) is crucial for their adoption in many robotics applications. This is arguably as important as making accurate predictions, especially for safety-critical applications such as self-driving cars. This paper proposes our approach to uncertainty quantification in the context of visual localization for autonomous driving, where we predict locations from images. Our proposed framework estimates probabilistic uncertainty by creating a sensor error model that maps an internal output of the prediction model to the uncertainty. The sensor error model is created using multiple image databases of visual localization, each with ground-truth location. We demonstrate the accuracy of our uncertainty prediction framework using the Ithaca365 dataset, which includes variations in lighting, weather (sunny, snowy, night), and alignment errors between databases. We analyze both the predicted uncertainty and its incorporation into a Kalman-based localization filter. Our results show that prediction error variations increase with poor weather and lighting condition, leading to greater uncertainty and outliers, which can be predicted by our proposed uncertainty model. Additionally, our probabilistic error model enables the filter to remove ad hoc sensor gating, as the uncertainty automatically adjusts the model to the input data
A Recipe for Efficient SBIR Models: Combining Relative Triplet Loss with Batch Normalization and Knowledge Distillation
Sketch-Based Image Retrieval (SBIR) is a crucial task in multimedia retrieval, where the goal is to retrieve a set of images that match a given sketch query. Researchers have already proposed several well-performing solutions for this task, but most focus on enhancing embedding through different approaches such as triplet loss, quadruplet loss, adding data augmentation, and using edge extraction. In this work, we tackle the problem from various angles. We start by examining the training data quality and show some of its limitations. Then, we introduce a Relative Triplet Loss (RTL), an adapted triplet loss to overcome those limitations through loss weighting based on anchors similarity. Through a series of experiments, we demonstrate that replacing a triplet loss with RTL outperforms previous state-of-the-art without the need for any data augmentation. In addition, we demonstrate why batch normalization is more suited for SBIR embeddings than l2-normalization and show that it improves significantly the performance of our models. We further investigate the capacity of models required for the photo and sketch domains and demonstrate that the photo encoder requires a higher capacity than the sketch encoder, which validates the hypothesis formulated in [34]. Then, we propose a straightforward approach to train small models, such as ShuffleNetv2 [22] efficiently with a marginal loss of accuracy through knowledge distillation. The same approach used with larger models enabled us to outperform previous state-of-the-art results and achieve a recall of 62.38% at k = 1 on The Sketchy Database [30].
Synfeal: A Data-Driven Simulator for End-to-End Camera Localization
Collecting real-world data is often considered the bottleneck of Artificial Intelligence, stalling the research progress in several fields, one of which is camera localization. End-to-end camera localization methods are still outperformed by traditional methods, and we argue that the inconsistencies associated with the data collection techniques are restraining the potential of end-to-end methods. Inspired by the recent data-centric paradigm, we propose a framework that synthesizes large localization datasets based on realistic 3D reconstructions of the real world. Our framework, termed Synfeal: Synthetic from Real, is an open-source, data-driven simulator that synthesizes RGB images by moving a virtual camera through a realistic 3D textured mesh, while collecting the corresponding ground-truth camera poses. The results validate that the training of camera localization algorithms on datasets generated by Synfeal leads to better results when compared to datasets generated by state-of-the-art methods. Using Synfeal, we conducted the first analysis of the relationship between the size of the dataset and the performance of camera localization algorithms. Results show that the performance significantly increases with the dataset size. Our results also suggest that when a large localization dataset with high quality is available, training from scratch leads to better performances. Synfeal is publicly available at https://github.com/DanielCoelho112/synfeal.
Nanoscale visualization of the thermally-driven evolution of antiferromagnetic domains in FeTe thin films
Antiferromagnetic order, being a ground state of a number of exotic quantum materials, is of immense interest both from the fundamental physics perspective and for driving potential technological applications. For a complete understanding of antiferromagnetism in materials, nanoscale visualization of antiferromagnetic domains, domain walls and their robustness to external perturbations is highly desirable. Here, we synthesize antiferromagnetic FeTe thin films using molecular beam epitaxy. We visualize local antiferromagnetic ordering and domain formation using spin-polarized scanning tunneling microscopy. From the atomically-resolved scanning tunneling microscopy topographs, we calculate local structural distortions to find a high correlation with the distribution of the antiferromagnetic order. This is consistent with the monoclinic structure in the antiferromagnetic state. Interestingly, we observe a substantial domain wall change by small temperature variations, unexpected for the low temperature changes used compared to the much higher antiferromagnetic ordering temperature of FeTe. This is in contrast to electronic nematic domains in the cousin FeSe multilayer films, where we find no electronic or structural change within the same temperature range. Our experiments provide the first atomic-scale imaging of perturbation-driven magnetic domain evolution simultaneous with the ensuing structural response of the system. The results reveal surprising thermally-driven modulations of antiferromagnetic domains in FeTe thin films well below the Neel temperature.
TReR: A Lightweight Transformer Re-Ranking Approach for 3D LiDAR Place Recognition
Autonomous driving systems often require reliable loop closure detection to guarantee reduced localization drift. Recently, 3D LiDAR-based localization methods have used retrieval-based place recognition to find revisited places efficiently. However, when deployed in challenging real-world scenarios, the place recognition models become more complex, which comes at the cost of high computational demand. This work tackles this problem from an information-retrieval perspective, adopting a first-retrieve-then-re-ranking paradigm, where an initial loop candidate ranking, generated from a 3D place recognition model, is re-ordered by a proposed lightweight transformer-based re-ranking approach (TReR). The proposed approach relies on global descriptors only, being agnostic to the place recognition model. The experimental evaluation, conducted on the KITTI Odometry dataset, where we compared TReR with s.o.t.a. re-ranking approaches such as alphaQE and SGV, indicate the robustness and efficiency when compared to alphaQE while offering a good trade-off between robustness and efficiency when compared to SGV.
ConaCLIP: Exploring Distillation of Fully-Connected Knowledge Interaction Graph for Lightweight Text-Image Retrieval
Large-scale pre-trained text-image models with dual-encoder architectures (such as CLIP) are typically adopted for various vision-language applications, including text-image retrieval. However,these models are still less practical on edge devices or for real-time situations, due to the substantial indexing and inference time and the large consumption of computational resources. Although knowledge distillation techniques have been widely utilized for uni-modal model compression, how to expand them to the situation when the numbers of modalities and teachers/students are doubled has been rarely studied. In this paper, we conduct comprehensive experiments on this topic and propose the fully-Connected knowledge interaction graph (Cona) technique for cross-modal pre-training distillation. Based on our findings, the resulting ConaCLIP achieves SOTA performances on the widely-used Flickr30K and MSCOCO benchmarks under the lightweight setting. An industry application of our method on an e-commercial platform further demonstrates the significant effectiveness of ConaCLIP.
FACTUAL: A Benchmark for Faithful and Consistent Textual Scene Graph Parsing
Textual scene graph parsing has become increasingly important in various vision-language applications, including image caption evaluation and image retrieval. However, existing scene graph parsers that convert image captions into scene graphs often suffer from two types of errors. First, the generated scene graphs fail to capture the true semantics of the captions or the corresponding images, resulting in a lack of faithfulness. Second, the generated scene graphs have high inconsistency, with the same semantics represented by different annotations.   To address these challenges, we propose a novel dataset, which involves re-annotating the captions in Visual Genome (VG) using a new intermediate representation called FACTUAL-MR. FACTUAL-MR can be directly converted into faithful and consistent scene graph annotations. Our experimental results clearly demonstrate that the parser trained on our dataset outperforms existing approaches in terms of faithfulness and consistency. This improvement leads to a significant performance boost in both image caption evaluation and zero-shot image retrieval tasks. Furthermore, we introduce a novel metric for measuring scene graph similarity, which, when combined with the improved scene graph parser, achieves state-of-the-art (SOTA) results on multiple benchmark datasets for the aforementioned tasks. The code and dataset are available at https://github.com/zhuang-li/FACTUAL .
Pentagon-Match (PMatch): Identification of View-Invariant Planar Feature for Local Feature Matching-Based Homography Estimation
In computer vision, finding correct point correspondence among images plays an important role in many applications, such as image stitching, image retrieval, visual localization, etc. Most of the research works focus on the matching of local feature before a sampling method is employed, such as RANSAC, to verify initial matching results via repeated fitting of certain global transformation among the images. However, incorrect matches may still exist. Thus, a novel sampling scheme, Pentagon-Match (PMatch), is proposed in this work to verify the correctness of initially matched keypoints using pentagons randomly sampled from them. By ensuring shape and location of these pentagons are view-invariant with various evaluations of cross-ratio (CR), incorrect matches of keypoint can be identified easily with homography estimated from correctly matched pentagons. Experimental results show that highly accurate estimation of homography can be obtained efficiently for planar scenes of the HPatches dataset, based on keypoint matching results provided by LoFTR. Besides, accurate outlier identification for the above matching results and possible extension of the approach for multi-plane situation are also demonstrated.
Generating Images with Multimodal Language Models
We propose a method to fuse frozen text-only large language models (LLMs) with pre-trained image encoder and decoder models, by mapping between their embedding spaces. Our model demonstrates a wide suite of multimodal capabilities: image retrieval, novel image generation, and multimodal dialogue. Ours is the first approach capable of conditioning on arbitrarily interleaved image and text inputs to generate coherent image (and text) outputs. To achieve strong performance on image generation, we propose an efficient mapping network to ground the LLM to an off-the-shelf text-to-image generation model. This mapping network translates hidden representations of text into the embedding space of the visual models, enabling us to leverage the strong text representations of the LLM for visual outputs. Our approach outperforms baseline generation models on tasks with longer and more complex language. In addition to novel image generation, our model is also capable of image retrieval from a prespecified dataset, and decides whether to retrieve or generate at inference time. This is done with a learnt decision module which conditions on the hidden representations of the LLM. Our model exhibits a wider range of capabilities compared to prior multimodal language models. It can process image-and-text inputs, and produce retrieved images, generated images, and generated text -- outperforming non-LLM based generation models across several text-to-image tasks that measure context dependence.
Candidate Set Re-ranking for Composed Image Retrieval with Dual Multi-modal Encoder
Composed image retrieval aims to find an image that best matches a given multi-modal user query consisting of a reference image and text pair. Existing methods commonly pre-compute image embeddings over the entire corpus and compare these to a reference image embedding modified by the query text at test time. Such a pipeline is very efficient at test time since fast vector distances can be used to evaluate candidates, but modifying the reference image embedding guided only by a short textual description can be difficult, especially independent of potential candidates. An alternative approach is to allow interactions between the query and every possible candidate, i.e., reference-text-candidate triplets, and pick the best from the entire set. Though this approach is more discriminative, for large-scale datasets the computational cost is prohibitive since pre-computation of candidate embeddings is no longer possible. We propose to combine the merits of both schemes using a two-stage model. Our first stage adopts the conventional vector distancing metric and performs a fast pruning among candidates. Meanwhile, our second stage employs a dual-encoder architecture, which effectively attends to the input triplet of reference-text-candidate and re-ranks the candidates. Both stages utilize a vision-and-language pre-trained network, which has proven beneficial for various downstream tasks. Our method consistently outperforms state-of-the-art approaches on standard benchmarks for the task.
Mitigating Test-Time Bias for Fair Image Retrieval
We address the challenge of generating fair and unbiased image retrieval results given neutral textual queries (with no explicit gender or race connotations), while maintaining the utility (performance) of the underlying vision-language (VL) model. Previous methods aim to disentangle learned representations of images and text queries from gender and racial characteristics. However, we show these are inadequate at alleviating bias for the desired equal representation result, as there usually exists test-time bias in the target retrieval set. So motivated, we introduce a straightforward technique, Post-hoc Bias Mitigation (PBM), that post-processes the outputs from the pre-trained vision-language model. We evaluate our algorithm on real-world image search datasets, Occupation 1 and 2, as well as two large-scale image-text datasets, MS-COCO and Flickr30k. Our approach achieves the lowest bias, compared with various existing bias-mitigation methods, in text-based image retrieval result while maintaining satisfactory retrieval performance. The source code is publicly available at \url{https://anonymous.4open.science/r/Fair_Text_based_Image_Retrieval-D8B2}.
Leveraging BEV Representation for 360-degree Visual Place Recognition
This paper investigates the advantages of using Bird's Eye View (BEV) representation in 360-degree visual place recognition (VPR). We propose a novel network architecture that utilizes the BEV representation in feature extraction, feature aggregation, and vision-LiDAR fusion, which bridges visual cues and spatial awareness. Our method extracts image features using standard convolutional networks and combines the features according to pre-defined 3D grid spatial points. To alleviate the mechanical and time misalignments between cameras, we further introduce deformable attention to learn the compensation. Upon the BEV feature representation, we then employ the polar transform and the Discrete Fourier transform for aggregation, which is shown to be rotation-invariant. In addition, the image and point cloud cues can be easily stated in the same coordinates, which benefits sensor fusion for place recognition. The proposed BEV-based method is evaluated in ablation and comparative studies on two datasets, including on-the-road and off-the-road scenarios. The experimental results verify the hypothesis that BEV can benefit VPR by its superior performance compared to baseline methods. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first trial of employing BEV representation in this task.
EDIS: Entity-Driven Image Search over Multimodal Web Content
Making image retrieval methods practical for real-world search applications requires significant progress in dataset scales, entity comprehension, and multimodal information fusion. In this work, we introduce \textbf{E}ntity-\textbf{D}riven \textbf{I}mage \textbf{S}earch (EDIS), a challenging dataset for cross-modal image search in the news domain. EDIS consists of 1 million web images from actual search engine results and curated datasets, with each image paired with a textual description. Unlike datasets that assume a small set of single-modality candidates, EDIS reflects real-world web image search scenarios by including a million multimodal image-text pairs as candidates. EDIS encourages the development of retrieval models that simultaneously address cross-modal information fusion and matching. To achieve accurate ranking results, a model must: 1) understand named entities and events from text queries, 2) ground entities onto images or text descriptions, and 3) effectively fuse textual and visual representations. Our experimental results show that EDIS challenges state-of-the-art methods with dense entities and a large-scale candidate set. The ablation study also proves that fusing textual features with visual features is critical in improving retrieval results.
DAC: Detector-Agnostic Spatial Covariances for Deep Local Features
Current deep visual local feature detectors do not model the spatial uncertainty of detected features, producing suboptimal results in downstream applications. In this work, we propose two post-hoc covariance estimates that can be plugged into any pretrained deep feature detector: a simple, isotropic covariance estimate that uses the predicted score at a given pixel location, and a full covariance estimate via the local structure tensor of the learned score maps. Both methods are easy to implement and can be applied to any deep feature detector. We show that these covariances are directly related to errors in feature matching, leading to improvements in downstream tasks, including triangulation, solving the perspective-n-point problem and motion-only bundle adjustment. Code is available at https://github.com/javrtg/DAC
Towards More Transparent and Accurate Cancer Diagnosis with an Unsupervised CAE Approach
Digital pathology has revolutionized cancer diagnosis by leveraging Content-Based Medical Image Retrieval (CBMIR) for analyzing histopathological Whole Slide Images (WSIs). CBMIR enables searching for similar content, enhancing diagnostic reliability and accuracy. In 2020, breast and prostate cancer constituted 11.7% and 14.1% of cases, respectively, as reported by the Global Cancer Observatory (GCO). The proposed Unsupervised CBMIR (UCBMIR) replicates the traditional cancer diagnosis workflow, offering a dependable method to support pathologists in WSI-based diagnostic conclusions. This approach alleviates pathologists' workload, potentially enhancing diagnostic efficiency. To address the challenge of the lack of labeled histopathological images in CBMIR, a customized unsupervised Convolutional Auto Encoder (CAE) was developed, extracting 200 features per image for the search engine component. UCBMIR was evaluated using widely-used numerical techniques in CBMIR, alongside visual evaluation and comparison with a classifier. The validation involved three distinct datasets, with an external evaluation demonstrating its effectiveness. UCBMIR outperformed previous studies, achieving a top 5 recall of 99% and 80% on BreaKHis and SICAPv2, respectively, using the first evaluation technique. Precision rates of 91% and 70% were achieved for BreaKHis and SICAPv2, respectively, using the second evaluation technique. Furthermore, UCBMIR demonstrated the capability to identify various patterns in patches, achieving an 81% accuracy in the top 5 when tested on an external image from Arvaniti.
Learning Sequence Descriptor based on Spatiotemporal Attention for Visual Place Recognition
Sequence-based visual place recognition (sVPR) aims to match frame sequences with frames stored in a reference map for localization. Existing methods include sequence matching and sequence descriptor-based retrieval. The former is based on the assumption of constant velocity, which is difficult to hold in real scenarios and does not get rid of the intrinsic single frame descriptor mismatch. The latter solves this problem by extracting a descriptor for the whole sequence, but current sequence descriptors are only constructed by feature aggregation of multi-frames, with no temporal information interaction. In this paper, we propose a sequential descriptor extraction method to fuse spatiotemporal information effectively and generate discriminative descriptors. Specifically, similar features on the same frame focu on each other and learn space structure, and the same local regions of different frames learn local feature changes over time. And we use sliding windows to control the temporal self-attention range and adpot relative position encoding to construct the positional relationships between different features, which allows our descriptor to capture the inherent dynamics in the frame sequence and local feature motion.
Self-Training Boosted Multi-Faceted Matching Network for Composed Image Retrieval
The composed image retrieval (CIR) task aims to retrieve the desired target image for a given multimodal query, i.e., a reference image with its corresponding modification text. The key limitations encountered by existing efforts are two aspects: 1) ignoring the multi-faceted query-target matching factors; 2) ignoring the potential unlabeled reference-target image pairs in existing benchmark datasets. To address these two limitations is non-trivial due to the following challenges: 1) how to effectively model the multi-faceted matching factors in a latent way without direct supervision signals; 2) how to fully utilize the potential unlabeled reference-target image pairs to improve the generalization ability of the CIR model. To address these challenges, in this work, we first propose a muLtI-faceted Matching Network (LIMN), which consists of three key modules: multi-grained image/text encoder, latent factor-oriented feature aggregation, and query-target matching modeling. Thereafter, we design an iterative dual self-training paradigm to further enhance the performance of LIMN by fully utilizing the potential unlabeled reference-target image pairs in a semi-supervised manner. Specifically, we denote the iterative dual self-training paradigm enhanced LIMN as LIMN+. Extensive experiments on three real-world datasets, FashionIQ, Shoes, and Birds-to-Words, show that our proposed method significantly surpasses the state-of-the-art baselines.
Illumination-insensitive Binary Descriptor for Visual Measurement Based on Local Inter-patch Invariance
Binary feature descriptors have been widely used in various visual measurement tasks, particularly those with limited computing resources and storage capacities. Existing binary descriptors may not perform well for long-term visual measurement tasks due to their sensitivity to illumination variations. It can be observed that when image illumination changes dramatically, the relative relationship among local patches mostly remains intact. Based on the observation, consequently, this study presents an illumination-insensitive binary (IIB) descriptor by leveraging the local inter-patch invariance exhibited in multiple spatial granularities to deal with unfavorable illumination variations. By taking advantage of integral images for local patch feature computation, a highly efficient IIB descriptor is achieved. It can encode scalable features in multiple spatial granularities, thus facilitating a computationally efficient hierarchical matching from coarse to fine. Moreover, the IIB descriptor can also apply to other types of image data, such as depth maps and semantic segmentation results, when available in some applications. Numerical experiments on both natural and synthetic datasets reveal that the proposed IIB descriptor outperforms state-of-the-art binary descriptors and some testing float descriptors. The proposed IIB descriptor has also been successfully employed in a demo system for long-term visual localization. The code of the IIB descriptor will be publicly available.
IMAGINATOR: Pre-Trained Image+Text Joint Embeddings using Word-Level Grounding of Images
Word embeddings, i.e., semantically meaningful vector representation of words, are largely influenced by the distributional hypothesis "You shall know a word by the company it keeps" (Harris, 1954), whereas modern prediction-based neural network embeddings rely on design choices and hyperparameter optimization. Word embeddings like Word2Vec, GloVe etc. well capture the contextuality and real-world analogies but contemporary convolution-based image embeddings such as VGGNet, AlexNet, etc. do not capture contextual knowledge. The popular king-queen analogy does not hold true for most commonly used vision embeddings.   In this paper, we introduce a pre-trained joint embedding (JE), named IMAGINATOR, trained on 21K distinct image objects level from 1M image+text pairs. JE is a way to encode multimodal data into a vector space where the text modality serves as the ground-ing key, which the complementary modality (in this case, the image) is anchored with. IMAGINATOR encapsulates three individual representations: (i) object-object co-location, (ii) word-object co-location, and (iii) word-object correlation. These three ways capture complementary aspects of the two modalities which are further combined to obtain the final JEs.   Generated JEs are intrinsically evaluated to assess how well they capture the contextuality and real-world analogies. We also evaluate pre-trained IMAGINATOR JEs on three downstream tasks: (i) image captioning, (ii) Image2Tweet, and (iii) text-based image retrieval. IMAGINATOR establishes a new standard on the aforementioned down-stream tasks by outperforming the current SoTA on all the selected tasks. IMAGINATOR will be made publicly available. The codes are available at https://github.com/varunakk/IMAGINATOR
Foundations of Spatial Perception for Robotics: Hierarchical Representations and Real-time Systems
3D spatial perception is the problem of building and maintaining an actionable and persistent representation of the environment in real-time using sensor data and prior knowledge. Despite the fast-paced progress in robot perception, most existing methods either build purely geometric maps (as in traditional SLAM) or flat metric-semantic maps that do not scale to large environments or large dictionaries of semantic labels. The first part of this paper is concerned with representations: we show that scalable representations for spatial perception need to be hierarchical in nature. Hierarchical representations are efficient to store, and lead to layered graphs with small treewidth, which enable provably efficient inference. We then introduce an example of hierarchical representation for indoor environments, namely a 3D scene graph, and discuss its structure and properties. The second part of the paper focuses on algorithms to incrementally construct a 3D scene graph as the robot explores the environment. Our algorithms combine 3D geometry, topology (to cluster the places into rooms), and geometric deep learning (e.g., to classify the type of rooms the robot is moving across). The third part of the paper focuses on algorithms to maintain and correct 3D scene graphs during long-term operation. We propose hierarchical descriptors for loop closure detection and describe how to correct a scene graph in response to loop closures, by solving a 3D scene graph optimization problem. We conclude the paper by combining the proposed perception algorithms into Hydra, a real-time spatial perception system that builds a 3D scene graph from visual-inertial data in real-time. We showcase Hydra's performance in photo-realistic simulations and real data collected by a Clearpath Jackal robots and a Unitree A1 robot. We release an open-source implementation of Hydra at https://github.com/MIT-SPARK/Hydra.
Visual Place Recognition with Low-Resolution Images
Images incorporate a wealth of information from a robot's surroundings. With the widespread availability of compact cameras, visual information has become increasingly popular for addressing the localisation problem, which is then termed as Visual Place Recognition (VPR). While many applications use high-resolution cameras and high-end systems to achieve optimal place-matching performance, low-end commercial systems face limitations due to resource constraints and relatively low-resolution and low-quality cameras. In this paper, we analyse the effects of image resolution on the accuracy and robustness of well-established handcrafted VPR pipelines. Handcrafted designs have low computational demands and can adapt to flexible image resolutions, making them a suitable approach to scale to any image source and to operate under resource limitations. This paper aims to help academic researchers and companies in the hardware and software industry co-design VPR solutions and expand the use of VPR algorithms in commercial products.
Vision-Language Models in Remote Sensing: Current Progress and Future Trends
The remarkable achievements of ChatGPT and GPT-4 have sparked a wave of interest and research in the field of large language models for Artificial General Intelligence (AGI). These models provide us with intelligent solutions that are more similar to human thinking, enabling us to use general artificial intelligence to solve problems in various applications. However, in the field of remote sensing, the scientific literature on the implementation of AGI remains relatively scant. Existing AI-related research primarily focuses on visual understanding tasks while neglecting the semantic understanding of the objects and their relationships. This is where vision-language models excel, as they enable reasoning about images and their associated textual descriptions, allowing for a deeper understanding of the underlying semantics. Vision-language models can go beyond recognizing the objects in an image and can infer the relationships between them, as well as generate natural language descriptions of the image. This makes them better suited for tasks that require both visual and textual understanding, such as image captioning, text-based image retrieval, and visual question answering. This paper provides a comprehensive review of the research on vision-language models in remote sensing, summarizing the latest progress, highlighting the current challenges, and identifying potential research opportunities. Specifically, we review the application of vision-language models in several mainstream remote sensing tasks, including image captioning, text-based image generation, text-based image retrieval, visual question answering, scene classification, semantic segmentation, and object detection. For each task, we briefly describe the task background and review some representative works. Finally, we summarize the limitations of existing work and provide some possible directions for future development.
An Evaluation and Ranking of Different Voting Schemes for Improved Visual Place Recognition
Visual Place Recognition has recently seen a surge of endeavours utilizing different ensemble approaches to improve VPR performance. Ideas like multi-process fusion or switching involve combining different VPR techniques together, utilizing different strategies. One major aspect often common to many of these strategies is voting. Voting is widely used in many ensemble methods, so it is potentially a relevant subject to explore in terms of its application and significance for improving VPR performance. This paper attempts to looks into detail and analyze a variety of voting schemes to evaluate which voting technique is optimal for an ensemble VPR set up. We take inspiration from a variety of voting schemes that exist and are widely employed in other research fields such as politics and sociology. The idea is inspired by an observation that different voting methods result in different outcomes for the same type of data and each voting scheme is utilized for specific cases in different academic fields. Some of these voting schemes include Condorcet voting, Broda Count and Plurality voting. Voting employed in any aspect requires that a fair system be established, that outputs the best and most favourable results which in our case would involve improving VPR performance. We evaluate some of these voting techniques in a standardized testing of different VPR techniques, using a variety of VPR data sets. We aim to determine whether a single optimal voting scheme exists or, much like in other fields of research, the selection of a voting technique is relative to its application and environment. We also aim to propose a ranking of these different voting methods from best to worst according to our results as this will allow for better selection of voting schemes.
Region-based Contrastive Pretraining for Medical Image Retrieval with Anatomic Query
We introduce a novel Region-based contrastive pretraining for Medical Image Retrieval (RegionMIR) that demonstrates the feasibility of medical image retrieval with similar anatomical regions. RegionMIR addresses two major challenges for medical image retrieval i) standardization of clinically relevant searching criteria (e.g., anatomical, pathology-based), and ii) localization of anatomical area of interests that are semantically meaningful. In this work, we propose an ROI image retrieval image network that retrieves images with similar anatomy by extracting anatomical features (via bounding boxes) and evaluate similarity between pairwise anatomy-categorized features between the query and the database of images using contrastive learning. ROI queries are encoded using a contrastive-pretrained encoder that was fine-tuned for anatomy classification, which generates an anatomical-specific latent space for region-correlated image retrieval. During retrieval, we compare the anatomically encoded query to find similar features within a feature database generated from training samples, and retrieve images with similar regions from training samples. We evaluate our approach on both anatomy classification and image retrieval tasks using the Chest ImaGenome Dataset. Our proposed strategy yields an improvement over state-of-the-art pretraining and co-training strategies, from 92.24 to 94.12 (2.03%) classification accuracy in anatomies. We qualitatively evaluate the image retrieval performance demonstrating generalizability across multiple anatomies with different morphology.
ColonMapper: topological mapping and localization for colonoscopy
Mapping and localization in endoluminal cavities from colonoscopies or gastroscopies has to overcome the challenge of significant shape and illumination changes between reobservations of the same endoluminal location. Instead of geometrical maps that strongly rely on a fixed scene geometry, topological maps are more adequate because they focus on visual place recognition, i.e. the capability to determine if two video shots are imaging the same location. We propose a topological mapping and localization system able to operate on real human colonoscopies. The map is a graph where each node codes a colon location by a set of real images of that location. The edges represent traversability between two nodes. For close-in-time images, where scene changes are minor, place recognition can be successfully managed with the recent transformers-based image-matching algorithms. However, under long-term changes -- such as different colonoscopies of the same patient -- feature-based matching fails. To address this, we propose a GeM global descriptor able to achieve high recall with significant changes in the scene. The addition of a Bayesian filter processing the map graph boosts the accuracy of the long-term place recognition, enabling relocalization in a previously built map. In the experiments, we construct a map during the withdrawal phase of a first colonoscopy. Subsequently, we prove the ability to relocalize within this map during a second colonoscopy of the same patient two weeks later. Code and models will be available upon acceptance.
Eiffel Tower: A Deep-Sea Underwater Dataset for Long-Term Visual Localization
Visual localization plays an important role in the positioning and navigation of robotics systems within previously visited environments. When visits occur over long periods of time, changes in the environment related to seasons or day-night cycles present a major challenge. Under water, the sources of variability are due to other factors such as water conditions or growth of marine organisms. Yet it remains a major obstacle and a much less studied one, partly due to the lack of data. This paper presents a new deep-sea dataset to benchmark underwater long-term visual localization. The dataset is composed of images from four visits to the same hydrothermal vent edifice over the course of five years. Camera poses and a common geometry of the scene were estimated using navigation data and Structure-from-Motion. This serves as a reference when evaluating visual localization techniques. An analysis of the data provides insights about the major changes observed throughout the years. Furthermore, several well-established visual localization methods are evaluated on the dataset, showing there is still room for improvement in underwater long-term visual localization. The data is made publicly available at https://www.seanoe.org/data/00810/92226/.
Patch-DrosoNet: Classifying Image Partitions With Fly-Inspired Models For Lightweight Visual Place Recognition
Visual place recognition (VPR) enables autonomous systems to localize themselves within an environment using image information. While Convolution Neural Networks (CNNs) currently dominate state-of-the-art VPR performance, their high computational requirements make them unsuitable for platforms with budget or size constraints. This has spurred the development of lightweight algorithms, such as DrosoNet, which employs a voting system based on multiple bio-inspired units. In this paper, we present a novel training approach for DrosoNet, wherein separate models are trained on distinct regions of a reference image, allowing them to specialize in the visual features of that specific section. Additionally, we introduce a convolutional-like prediction method, in which each DrosoNet unit generates a set of place predictions for each portion of the query image. These predictions are then combined using the previously introduced voting system. Our approach significantly improves upon the VPR performance of previous work while maintaining an extremely compact and lightweight algorithm, making it suitable for resource-constrained platforms.
Adapt and Align to Improve Zero-Shot Sketch-Based Image Retrieval
Zero-shot sketch-based image retrieval (ZS-SBIR) is challenging due to the cross-domain nature of sketches and photos, as well as the semantic gap between seen and unseen image distributions. Previous methods fine-tune pre-trained models with various side information and learning strategies to learn a compact feature space that is shared between the sketch and photo domains and bridges seen and unseen classes. However, these efforts are inadequate in adapting domains and transferring knowledge from seen to unseen classes. In this paper, we present an effective ``Adapt and Align'' approach to address the key challenges. Specifically, we insert simple and lightweight domain adapters to learn new abstract concepts of the sketch domain and improve cross-domain representation capabilities. Inspired by recent advances in image-text foundation models (e.g., CLIP) on zero-shot scenarios, we explicitly align the learned image embedding with a more semantic text embedding to achieve the desired knowledge transfer from seen to unseen classes. Extensive experiments on three benchmark datasets and two popular backbones demonstrate the superiority of our method in terms of retrieval accuracy and flexibility.
Hierarchical Visual Localization Based on Sparse Feature Pyramid for Adaptive Reduction of Keypoint Map Size
Visual localization is a fundamental task for a wide range of applications in the field of robotics. Yet, it is still a complex problem with no universal solution, and the existing approaches are difficult to scale: most state-of-the-art solutions are unable to provide accurate localization without a significant amount of storage space. We propose a hierarchical, low-memory approach to localization based on keypoints with different descriptor lengths. It becomes possible with the use of the developed unsupervised neural network, which predicts a feature pyramid with different descriptor lengths for images. This structure allows applying coarse-to-fine paradigms for localization based on keypoint map, and varying the accuracy of localization by changing the type of the descriptors used in the pipeline. Our approach achieves comparable results in localization accuracy and a significant reduction in memory consumption (up to 16 times) among state-of-the-art methods.
Privacy-Preserving Representations are not Enough -- Recovering Scene Content from Camera Poses
Visual localization is the task of estimating the camera pose from which a given image was taken and is central to several 3D computer vision applications. With the rapid growth in the popularity of AR/VR/MR devices and cloud-based applications, privacy issues are becoming a very important aspect of the localization process. Existing work on privacy-preserving localization aims to defend against an attacker who has access to a cloud-based service. In this paper, we show that an attacker can learn about details of a scene without any access by simply querying a localization service. The attack is based on the observation that modern visual localization algorithms are robust to variations in appearance and geometry. While this is in general a desired property, it also leads to algorithms localizing objects that are similar enough to those present in a scene. An attacker can thus query a server with a large enough set of images of objects, \eg, obtained from the Internet, and some of them will be localized. The attacker can thus learn about object placements from the camera poses returned by the service (which is the minimal information returned by such a service). In this paper, we develop a proof-of-concept version of this attack and demonstrate its practical feasibility. The attack does not place any requirements on the localization algorithm used, and thus also applies to privacy-preserving representations. Current work on privacy-preserving representations alone is thus insufficient.
Keyword-Based Diverse Image Retrieval by Semantics-aware Contrastive Learning and Transformer
In addition to relevance, diversity is an important yet less studied performance metric of cross-modal image retrieval systems, which is critical to user experience. Existing solutions for diversity-aware image retrieval either explicitly post-process the raw retrieval results from standard retrieval systems or try to learn multi-vector representations of images to represent their diverse semantics. However, neither of them is good enough to balance relevance and diversity. On the one hand, standard retrieval systems are usually biased to common semantics and seldom exploit diversity-aware regularization in training, which makes it difficult to promote diversity by post-processing. On the other hand, multi-vector representation methods are not guaranteed to learn robust multiple projections. As a result, irrelevant images and images of rare or unique semantics may be projected inappropriately, which degrades the relevance and diversity of the results generated by some typical algorithms like top-k. To cope with these problems, this paper presents a new method called CoLT that tries to generate much more representative and robust representations for accurately classifying images. Specifically, CoLT first extracts semantics-aware image features by enhancing the preliminary representations of an existing one-to-one cross-modal system with semantics-aware contrastive learning. Then, a transformer-based token classifier is developed to subsume all the features into their corresponding categories. Finally, a post-processing algorithm is designed to retrieve images from each category to form the final retrieval result. Extensive experiments on two real-world datasets Div400 and Div150Cred show that CoLT can effectively boost diversity, and outperforms the existing methods as a whole (with a higher F1 score).
Fairness in Image Search: A Study of Occupational Stereotyping in Image Retrieval and its Debiasing
Multi-modal search engines have experienced significant growth and widespread use in recent years, making them the second most common internet use. While search engine systems offer a range of services, the image search field has recently become a focal point in the information retrieval community, as the adage goes, "a picture is worth a thousand words". Although popular search engines like Google excel at image search accuracy and agility, there is an ongoing debate over whether their search results can be biased in terms of gender, language, demographics, socio-cultural aspects, and stereotypes. This potential for bias can have a significant impact on individuals' perceptions and influence their perspectives.   In this paper, we present our study on bias and fairness in web search, with a focus on keyword-based image search. We first discuss several kinds of biases that exist in search systems and why it is important to mitigate them. We narrow down our study to assessing and mitigating occupational stereotypes in image search, which is a prevalent fairness issue in image retrieval. For the assessment of stereotypes, we take gender as an indicator. We explore various open-source and proprietary APIs for gender identification from images. With these, we examine the extent of gender bias in top-tanked image search results obtained for several occupational keywords. To mitigate the bias, we then propose a fairness-aware re-ranking algorithm that optimizes (a) relevance of the search result with the keyword and (b) fairness w.r.t genders identified. We experiment on 100 top-ranked images obtained for 10 occupational keywords and consider random re-ranking and re-ranking based on relevance as baselines. Our experimental results show that the fairness-aware re-ranking algorithm produces rankings with better fairness scores and competitive relevance scores than the baselines.
COLA: How to adapt vision-language models to Compose Objects Localized with Attributes?
Compositional reasoning is a hallmark of human visual intelligence; yet despite the size of large vision-language models, they struggle to represent simple compositions by combining objects with their attributes. To measure this lack of compositional capability, we design Cola, a text-to-image retrieval benchmark to Compose Objects Localized with Attributes. Using Cola as a testbed, we explore modeling designs to adapt pre-trained vision-language models to reason compositionally about multiple attributes attached to multiple objects. We explore 6 finetuning strategies on 2 seminal vision-language models, using 3 finetuning datasets and 2 test benchmarks (Cola and CREPE). Surprisingly, our optimal finetuning strategy improves a 151M parameter CLIP, which disjointly encodes image and language during pretraining, to perform as well as a 241M parameter FLAVA, which uses a multi-modal transformer encoder during pretraining to attend over both vision and language modalities. This optimal finetuning strategy is a lightweight multi-modal adapter that jointly attends over both image and language features generated by the pretrained model. We show this works better than common strategies such as prompt/fine-tuning, or tuning a comparable number of unimodal layers.
HSCNet++: Hierarchical Scene Coordinate Classification and Regression for Visual Localization with Transformer
Visual localization is critical to many applications in computer vision and robotics. To address single-image RGB localization, state-of-the-art feature-based methods match local descriptors between a query image and a pre-built 3D model. Recently, deep neural networks have been exploited to regress the mapping between raw pixels and 3D coordinates in the scene, and thus the matching is implicitly performed by the forward pass through the network. However, in a large and ambiguous environment, learning such a regression task directly can be difficult for a single network. In this work, we present a new hierarchical scene coordinate network to predict pixel scene coordinates in a coarse-to-fine manner from a single RGB image. The proposed method, which is an extension of HSCNet, allows us to train compact models which scale robustly to large environments. It sets a new state-of-the-art for single-image localization on the 7-Scenes, 12 Scenes, Cambridge Landmarks datasets, and the combined indoor scenes.
WWFedCBMIR: World-Wide Federated Content-Based Medical Image Retrieval
The paper proposes a Federated Content-Based Medical Image Retrieval (FedCBMIR) platform that utilizes Federated Learning (FL) to address the challenges of acquiring a diverse medical data set for training CBMIR models. CBMIR assists pathologists in diagnosing breast cancer more rapidly by identifying similar medical images and relevant patches in prior cases compared to traditional cancer detection methods. However, CBMIR in histopathology necessitates a pool of Whole Slide Images (WSIs) to train to extract an optimal embedding vector that leverages search engine performance, which may not be available in all centers. The strict regulations surrounding data sharing in medical data sets also hinder research and model development, making it difficult to collect a rich data set. The proposed FedCBMIR distributes the model to collaborative centers for training without sharing the data set, resulting in shorter training times than local training. FedCBMIR was evaluated in two experiments with three scenarios on BreaKHis and Camelyon17 (CAM17). The study shows that the FedCBMIR method increases the F1-Score (F1S) of each client to 98%, 96%, 94%, and 97% in the BreaKHis experiment with a generalized model of four magnifications and does so in 6.30 hours less time than total local training. FedCBMIR also achieves 98% accuracy with CAM17 in 2.49 hours less training time than local training, demonstrating that our FedCBMIR is both fast and accurate for both pathologists and engineers. In addition, our FedCBMIR provides similar images with higher magnification for non-developed countries where participate in the worldwide FedCBMIR with developed countries to facilitate mitosis measuring in breast cancer diagnosis. We evaluate this scenario by scattering BreaKHis into four centers with different magnifications.
Boundary-aware Backward-Compatible Representation via Adversarial Learning in Image Retrieval
Image retrieval plays an important role in the Internet world. Usually, the core parts of mainstream visual retrieval systems include an online service of the embedding model and a large-scale vector database. For traditional model upgrades, the old model will not be replaced by the new one until the embeddings of all the images in the database are re-computed by the new model, which takes days or weeks for a large amount of data. Recently, backward-compatible training (BCT) enables the new model to be immediately deployed online by making the new embeddings directly comparable to the old ones. For BCT, improving the compatibility of two models with less negative impact on retrieval performance is the key challenge. In this paper, we introduce AdvBCT, an Adversarial Backward-Compatible Training method with an elastic boundary constraint that takes both compatibility and discrimination into consideration. We first employ adversarial learning to minimize the distribution disparity between embeddings of the new model and the old model. Meanwhile, we add an elastic boundary constraint during training to improve compatibility and discrimination efficiently. Extensive experiments on GLDv2, Revisited Oxford (ROxford), and Revisited Paris (RParis) demonstrate that our method outperforms other BCT methods on both compatibility and discrimination. The implementation of AdvBCT will be publicly available at https://github.com/Ashespt/AdvBCT.
Learning-based Relational Object Matching Across Views
Intelligent robots require object-level scene understanding to reason about possible tasks and interactions with the environment. Moreover, many perception tasks such as scene reconstruction, image retrieval, or place recognition can benefit from reasoning on the level of objects. While keypoint-based matching can yield strong results for finding correspondences for images with small to medium view point changes, for large view point changes, matching semantically on the object-level becomes advantageous. In this paper, we propose a learning-based approach which combines local keypoints with novel object-level features for matching object detections between RGB images. We train our object-level matching features based on appearance and inter-frame and cross-frame spatial relations between objects in an associative graph neural network. We demonstrate our approach in a large variety of views on realistically rendered synthetic images. Our approach compares favorably to previous state-of-the-art object-level matching approaches and achieves improved performance over a pure keypoint-based approach for large view-point changes.
A Neural Divide-and-Conquer Reasoning Framework for Image Retrieval from Linguistically Complex Text
Pretrained Vision-Language Models (VLMs) have achieved remarkable performance in image retrieval from text. However, their performance drops drastically when confronted with linguistically complex texts that they struggle to comprehend. Inspired by the Divide-and-Conquer algorithm and dual-process theory, in this paper, we regard linguistically complex texts as compound proposition texts composed of multiple simple proposition sentences and propose an end-to-end Neural Divide-and-Conquer Reasoning framework, dubbed NDCR. It contains three main components: 1) Divide: a proposition generator divides the compound proposition text into simple proposition sentences and produces their corresponding representations, 2) Conquer: a pretrained VLMs-based visual-linguistic interactor achieves the interaction between decomposed proposition sentences and images, 3) Combine: a neural-symbolic reasoner combines the above reasoning states to obtain the final solution via a neural logic reasoning approach. According to the dual-process theory, the visual-linguistic interactor and neural-symbolic reasoner could be regarded as analogical reasoning System 1 and logical reasoning System 2. We conduct extensive experiments on a challenging image retrieval from contextual descriptions data set. Experimental results and analyses indicate NDCR significantly improves performance in the complex image-text reasoning problem. Code link: https://github.com/YunxinLi/NDCR.
AV-SAM: Segment Anything Model Meets Audio-Visual Localization and Segmentation
Segment Anything Model (SAM) has recently shown its powerful effectiveness in visual segmentation tasks. However, there is less exploration concerning how SAM works on audio-visual tasks, such as visual sound localization and segmentation. In this work, we propose a simple yet effective audio-visual localization and segmentation framework based on the Segment Anything Model, namely AV-SAM, that can generate sounding object masks corresponding to the audio. Specifically, our AV-SAM simply leverages pixel-wise audio-visual fusion across audio features and visual features from the pre-trained image encoder in SAM to aggregate cross-modal representations. Then, the aggregated cross-modal features are fed into the prompt encoder and mask decoder to generate the final audio-visual segmentation masks. We conduct extensive experiments on Flickr-SoundNet and AVSBench datasets. The results demonstrate that the proposed AV-SAM can achieve competitive performance on sounding object localization and segmentation.
Second-order Anisotropic Gaussian Directional Derivative Filters for Blob Detection
Interest point detection methods have received increasing attention and are widely used in computer vision tasks such as image retrieval and 3D reconstruction. In this work, second-order anisotropic Gaussian directional derivative filters with multiple scales are used to smooth the input image and a novel blob detection method is proposed. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of our proposed method over state-of-the-art benchmarks in terms of detection performance and robustness to affine transformations.
SFD2: Semantic-guided Feature Detection and Description
Visual localization is a fundamental task for various applications including autonomous driving and robotics. Prior methods focus on extracting large amounts of often redundant locally reliable features, resulting in limited efficiency and accuracy, especially in large-scale environments under challenging conditions. Instead, we propose to extract globally reliable features by implicitly embedding high-level semantics into both the detection and description processes. Specifically, our semantic-aware detector is able to detect keypoints from reliable regions (e.g. building, traffic lane) and suppress unreliable areas (e.g. sky, car) implicitly instead of relying on explicit semantic labels. This boosts the accuracy of keypoint matching by reducing the number of features sensitive to appearance changes and avoiding the need of additional segmentation networks at test time. Moreover, our descriptors are augmented with semantics and have stronger discriminative ability, providing more inliers at test time. Particularly, experiments on long-term large-scale visual localization Aachen Day-Night and RobotCar-Seasons datasets demonstrate that our model outperforms previous local features and gives competitive accuracy to advanced matchers but is about 2 and 3 times faster when using 2k and 4k keypoints, respectively.
Quantum enhanced non-interferometric quantitative phase imaging
Quantum entanglement and squeezing have significantly improved phase estimation and imaging in interferometric settings beyond the classical limits. However, for a wide class of non-interferometric phase imaging/retrieval methods vastly used in the classical domain e.g., ptychography and diffractive imaging, a demonstration of quantum advantage is still missing. Here, we fill this gap by exploiting entanglement to enhance imaging of a pure phase object in a non-interferometric setting, only measuring the phase effect on the free-propagating field. This method, based on the so-called "transport of intensity equation", is quantitative since it provides the absolute value of the phase without prior knowledge of the object and operates in wide-field mode, so it does not need time-consuming raster scanning. Moreover, it does not require spatial and temporal coherence of the incident light. Besides a general improvement of the image quality at a fixed number of photons irradiated through the object, resulting in better discrimination of small details, we demonstrate a clear reduction of the uncertainty in the quantitative phase estimation. Although we provide an experimental demonstration of a specific scheme in the visible spectrum, this research also paves the way for applications at different wavelengths, e.g., X-ray imaging, where reducing the photon dose is of utmost importance.
Hydra-Multi: Collaborative Online Construction of 3D Scene Graphs with Multi-Robot Teams
3D scene graphs have recently emerged as an expressive high-level map representation that describes a 3D environment as a layered graph where nodes represent spatial concepts at multiple levels of abstraction (e.g., objects, rooms, buildings) and edges represent relations between concepts (e.g., inclusion, adjacency). This paper describes Hydra-Multi, the first multi-robot spatial perception system capable of constructing a multi-robot 3D scene graph online from sensor data collected by robots in a team. In particular, we develop a centralized system capable of constructing a joint 3D scene graph by taking incremental inputs from multiple robots, effectively finding the relative transforms between the robots' frames, and incorporating loop closure detections to correctly reconcile the scene graph nodes from different robots. We evaluate Hydra-Multi on simulated and real scenarios and show it is able to reconstruct accurate 3D scene graphs online. We also demonstrate Hydra-Multi's capability of supporting heterogeneous teams by fusing different map representations built by robots with different sensor suites.
STIR: Siamese Transformer for Image Retrieval Postprocessing
Current metric learning approaches for image retrieval are usually based on learning a space of informative latent representations where simple approaches such as the cosine distance will work well. Recent state of the art methods such as HypViT move to more complex embedding spaces that may yield better results but are harder to scale to production environments. In this work, we first construct a simpler model based on triplet loss with hard negatives mining that performs at the state of the art level but does not have these drawbacks. Second, we introduce a novel approach for image retrieval postprocessing called Siamese Transformer for Image Retrieval (STIR) that reranks several top outputs in a single forward pass. Unlike previously proposed Reranking Transformers, STIR does not rely on global/local feature extraction and directly compares a query image and a retrieved candidate on pixel level with the usage of attention mechanism. The resulting approach defines a new state of the art on standard image retrieval datasets: Stanford Online Products and DeepFashion In-shop. We also release the source code at https://github.com/OML-Team/open-metric-learning/tree/main/pipelines/postprocessing/ and an interactive demo of our approach at https://dapladoc-oml-postprocessing-demo-srcappmain-pfh2g0.streamlit.app/
DualSlide: Global-to-Local Sketching Interface for Slide Content and Layout Design
Online learning and academic conferences have become pervasive and essential for education and professional development, especially since the onset of pandemics. Academic presentations usually require well-designed slides that are easily understood. Sketches that visually represent design intentions and are readily accessible to the average users. To assist non-expert users in creating visually appealing academic slides, we propose DualSlide, a global and local two-stage sketching interface system that provides image retrieval and user guidance. At the global stage, DualSlide provides a heat map canvas to display the distribution of all slide layouts in a dataset, allowing users to explore the reference slides efficiently. At the local stage of the system, detailed references and guidance for designing slide content, such as diagrams and fonts, can be provided. We further propose a sketch-matching algorithm to compare the user's input sketch and similar diagrams. All user guidance can be adapted in real-time editing, and users can design slides with a high degree of freedom. We conducted a user study to verify the effectiveness and usability of the proposed DualSlide system confirming that DualSlide provides high retrieval accuracy and satisfactory design results with a good user experience. Video: https://youtu.be/lUI1zjxCdM0
Rank Flow Embedding for Unsupervised and Semi-Supervised Manifold Learning
Impressive advances in acquisition and sharing technologies have made the growth of multimedia collections and their applications almost unlimited. However, the opposite is true for the availability of labeled data, which is needed for supervised training, since such data is often expensive and time-consuming to obtain. While there is a pressing need for the development of effective retrieval and classification methods, the difficulties faced by supervised approaches highlight the relevance of methods capable of operating with few or no labeled data. In this work, we propose a novel manifold learning algorithm named Rank Flow Embedding (RFE) for unsupervised and semi-supervised scenarios. The proposed method is based on ideas recently exploited by manifold learning approaches, which include hypergraphs, Cartesian products, and connected components. The algorithm computes context-sensitive embeddings, which are refined following a rank-based processing flow, while complementary contextual information is incorporated. The generated embeddings can be exploited for more effective unsupervised retrieval or semi-supervised classification based on Graph Convolutional Networks. Experimental results were conducted on 10 different collections. Various features were considered, including the ones obtained with recent Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) and Vision Transformer (ViT) models. High effective results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method on different tasks: unsupervised image retrieval, semi-supervised classification, and person Re-ID. The results demonstrate that RFE is competitive or superior to the state-of-the-art in diverse evaluated scenarios.
IDLL: Inverse Depth Line based Visual Localization in Challenging Environments
Precise and real-time localization of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) or robots in GNSS denied indoor environments are critically important for various logistics and surveillance applications. Vision-based simultaneously locating and mapping (VSLAM) are key solutions but suffer location drifts in texture-less, man-made indoor environments. Line features are rich in man-made environments which can be exploited to improve the localization robustness, but existing point-line based VSLAM methods still lack accuracy and efficiency for the representation of lines introducing unnecessary degrees of freedoms. In this paper, we propose Inverse Depth Line Localization(IDLL), which models each extracted line feature using two inverse depth variables exploiting the fact that the projected pixel coordinates on the image plane are rather accurate, which partially restrict the lines. This freedom-reduced representation of lines enables easier line determination and faster convergence of bundle adjustment in each step, therefore achieves more accurate and more efficient frame-to-frame registration and frame-to-map registration using both point and line visual features. We redesign the whole front-end and back-end modules of VSLAM using this line model. IDLL is extensively evaluated in multiple perceptually-challenging datasets. The results show it is more accurate, robust, and needs lower computational overhead than the current state-of-the-art of feature-based VSLAM methods.
Class-Specific Variational Auto-Encoder for Content-Based Image Retrieval
Using a discriminative representation obtained by supervised deep learning methods showed promising results on diverse Content-Based Image Retrieval (CBIR) problems. However, existing methods exploiting labels during training try to discriminate all available classes, which is not ideal in cases where the retrieval problem focuses on a class of interest. In this paper, we propose a regularized loss for Variational Auto-Encoders (VAEs) forcing the model to focus on a given class of interest. As a result, the model learns to discriminate the data belonging to the class of interest from any other possibility, making the learnt latent space of the VAE suitable for class-specific retrieval tasks. The proposed Class-Specific Variational Auto-Encoder (CS-VAE) is evaluated on three public and one custom datasets, and its performance is compared with that of three related VAE-based methods. Experimental results show that the proposed method outperforms its competition in both in-domain and out-of-domain retrieval problems.
Building Multimodal AI Chatbots
This work aims to create a multimodal AI system that chats with humans and shares relevant photos. While earlier works were limited to dialogues about specific objects or scenes within images, recent works have incorporated images into open-domain dialogues. However, their response generators are unimodal, accepting text input but no image input, thus prone to generating responses contradictory to the images shared in the dialogue. Therefore, this work proposes a complete chatbot system using two multimodal deep learning models: an image retriever that understands texts and a response generator that understands images. The image retriever, implemented by ViT and BERT, selects the most relevant image given the dialogue history and a database of images. The response generator, implemented by ViT and GPT-2/DialoGPT, generates an appropriate response given the dialogue history and the most recently retrieved image. The two models are trained and evaluated on PhotoChat, an open-domain dialogue dataset in which a photo is shared in each session. In automatic evaluation, the proposed image retriever outperforms existing baselines VSE++ and SCAN with Recall@1/5/10 of 0.1/0.3/0.4 and MRR of 0.2 when ranking 1,000 images. The proposed response generator also surpasses the baseline Divter with PPL of 16.9, BLEU-1/2 of 0.13/0.03, and Distinct-1/2 of 0.97/0.86, showing a significant improvement in PPL by -42.8 and BLEU-1/2 by +0.07/0.02. In human evaluation with a Likert scale of 1-5, the complete multimodal chatbot system receives higher image-groundedness of 4.3 and engagingness of 4.3, along with competitive fluency of 4.1, coherence of 3.9, and humanness of 3.1, when compared to other chatbot variants. The source code is available at: https://github.com/minniie/multimodal_chat.git.
Features-over-the-Air: Contrastive Learning Enabled Cooperative Edge Inference
We study the collaborative image retrieval problem at the wireless edge, where multiple edge devices capture images of the same object, which are then used jointly to retrieve similar images at the edge server over a shared multiple access channel. We propose a semantic non-orthogonal multiple access (NOMA) communication paradigm, in which extracted features from each device are mapped directly to channel inputs, which are then added over-the-air. We propose a novel contrastive learning (CL)-based semantic communication (CL-SC) paradigm, aiming to exploit signal correlations to maximize the retrieval accuracy under a total bandwidth constraints. Specifically, we treat noisy correlated signals as different augmentations of a common identity, and propose a cross-view CL algorithm to optimize the correlated signals in a coarse-to-fine fashion to improve retrieval accuracy. Extensive numerical experiments verify that our method achieves the state-of-the-art performance and can significantly improve retrieval accuracy, with particularly significant gains in low signla-to-noise ratio (SNR) and limited bandwidth regimes.
NeRF-Loc: Visual Localization with Conditional Neural Radiance Field
We propose a novel visual re-localization method based on direct matching between the implicit 3D descriptors and the 2D image with transformer. A conditional neural radiance field(NeRF) is chosen as the 3D scene representation in our pipeline, which supports continuous 3D descriptors generation and neural rendering. By unifying the feature matching and the scene coordinate regression to the same framework, our model learns both generalizable knowledge and scene prior respectively during two training stages. Furthermore, to improve the localization robustness when domain gap exists between training and testing phases, we propose an appearance adaptation layer to explicitly align styles between the 3D model and the query image. Experiments show that our method achieves higher localization accuracy than other learning-based approaches on multiple benchmarks. Code is available at \url{https://github.com/JenningsL/nerf-loc}.
Bent & Broken Bicycles: Leveraging synthetic data for damaged object re-identification
Instance-level object re-identification is a fundamental computer vision task, with applications from image retrieval to intelligent monitoring and fraud detection. In this work, we propose the novel task of damaged object re-identification, which aims at distinguishing changes in visual appearance due to deformations or missing parts from subtle intra-class variations. To explore this task, we leverage the power of computer-generated imagery to create, in a semi-automatic fashion, high-quality synthetic images of the same bike before and after a damage occurs. The resulting dataset, Bent & Broken Bicycles (BBBicycles), contains 39,200 images and 2,800 unique bike instances spanning 20 different bike models. As a baseline for this task, we propose TransReI3D, a multi-task, transformer-based deep network unifying damage detection (framed as a multi-label classification task) with object re-identification. The BBBicycles dataset is available at https://huggingface.co/datasets/GrainsPolito/BBBicycles
Language Guided Local Infiltration for Interactive Image Retrieval
Interactive Image Retrieval (IIR) aims to retrieve images that are generally similar to the reference image but under the requested text modification. The existing methods usually concatenate or sum the features of image and text simply and roughly, which, however, is difficult to precisely change the local semantics of the image that the text intends to modify. To solve this problem, we propose a Language Guided Local Infiltration (LGLI) system, which fully utilizes the text information and penetrates text features into image features as much as possible. Specifically, we first propose a Language Prompt Visual Localization (LPVL) module to generate a localization mask which explicitly locates the region (semantics) intended to be modified. Then we introduce a Text Infiltration with Local Awareness (TILA) module, which is deployed in the network to precisely modify the reference image and generate image-text infiltrated representation. Extensive experiments on various benchmark databases validate that our method outperforms most state-of-the-art IIR approaches.
Long-term Visual Localization with Mobile Sensors
Despite the remarkable advances in image matching and pose estimation, image-based localization of a camera in a temporally-varying outdoor environment is still a challenging problem due to huge appearance disparity between query and reference images caused by illumination, seasonal and structural changes. In this work, we propose to leverage additional sensors on a mobile phone, mainly GPS, compass, and gravity sensor, to solve this challenging problem. We show that these mobile sensors provide decent initial poses and effective constraints to reduce the searching space in image matching and final pose estimation. With the initial pose, we are also able to devise a direct 2D-3D matching network to efficiently establish 2D-3D correspondences instead of tedious 2D-2D matching in existing systems. As no public dataset exists for the studied problem, we collect a new dataset that provides a variety of mobile sensor data and significant scene appearance variations, and develop a system to acquire ground-truth poses for query images. We benchmark our method as well as several state-of-the-art baselines and demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach. The code and dataset will be released publicly.
Multimodal Representation Learning of Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Self-supervised learning is crucial for clinical imaging applications, given the lack of explicit labels in healthcare. However, conventional approaches that rely on precise vision-language alignment are not always feasible in complex clinical imaging modalities, such as cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR). CMR provides a comprehensive visualization of cardiac anatomy, physiology, and microstructure, making it challenging to interpret. Additionally, CMR reports require synthesizing information from sequences of images and different views, resulting in potentially weak alignment between the study and diagnosis report pair. To overcome these challenges, we propose \textbf{CMRformer}, a multimodal learning framework to jointly learn sequences of CMR images and associated cardiologist's reports. Moreover, one of the major obstacles to improving CMR study is the lack of large, publicly available datasets. To bridge this gap, we collected a large \textbf{CMR dataset}, which consists of 13,787 studies from clinical cases. By utilizing our proposed CMRformer and our collected dataset, we achieved remarkable performance in real-world clinical tasks, such as CMR image retrieval and diagnosis report retrieval. Furthermore, the learned representations are evaluated to be practically helpful for downstream applications, such as disease classification. Our work could potentially expedite progress in the CMR study and lead to more accurate and effective diagnosis and treatment.
CoPR: Towards Accurate Visual Localization With Continuous Place-descriptor Regression
Visual Place Recognition (VPR) is an image-based localization method that estimates the camera location of a query image by retrieving the most similar reference image from a map of geo-tagged reference images. In this work, we look into two fundamental bottlenecks for its localization accuracy: reference map sparseness and viewpoint invariance. Firstly, the reference images for VPR are only available at sparse poses in a map, which enforces an upper bound on the maximum achievable localization accuracy through VPR. We therefore propose Continuous Place-descriptor Regression (CoPR) to densify the map and improve localization accuracy. We study various interpolation and extrapolation models to regress additional VPR feature descriptors from only the existing references. Secondly, we compare different feature encoders and show that CoPR presents value for all of them. We evaluate our models on three existing public datasets and report on average around 30% improvement in VPR-based localization accuracy using CoPR, on top of the 15% increase by using a viewpoint-variant loss for the feature encoder. The complementary relation between CoPR and Relative Pose Estimation is also discussed.
FM-Loc: Using Foundation Models for Improved Vision-based Localization
Visual place recognition is essential for vision-based robot localization and SLAM. Despite the tremendous progress made in recent years, place recognition in changing environments remains challenging. A promising approach to cope with appearance variations is to leverage high-level semantic features like objects or place categories. In this paper, we propose FM-Loc which is a novel image-based localization approach based on Foundation Models that uses the Large Language Model GPT-3 in combination with the Visual-Language Model CLIP to construct a semantic image descriptor that is robust to severe changes in scene geometry and camera viewpoint. We deploy CLIP to detect objects in an image, GPT-3 to suggest potential room labels based on the detected objects, and CLIP again to propose the most likely location label. The object labels and the scene label constitute an image descriptor that we use to calculate a similarity score between the query and database images. We validate our approach on real-world data that exhibit significant changes in camera viewpoints and object placement between the database and query trajectories. The experimental results demonstrate that our method is applicable to a wide range of indoor scenarios without the need for training or fine-tuning.
Toward Real-Time Image Annotation Using Marginalized Coupled Dictionary Learning
In most image retrieval systems, images include various high-level semantics, called tags or annotations. Virtually all the state-of-the-art image annotation methods that handle imbalanced labeling are search-based techniques which are time-consuming. In this paper, a novel coupled dictionary learning approach is proposed to learn a limited number of visual prototypes and their corresponding semantics simultaneously. This approach leads to a real-time image annotation procedure. Another contribution of this paper is that utilizes a marginalized loss function instead of the squared loss function that is inappropriate for image annotation with imbalanced labels. We have employed a marginalized loss function in our method to leverage a simple and effective method of prototype updating. Meanwhile, we have introduced ${\ell}_1$ regularization on semantic prototypes to preserve the sparse and imbalanced nature of labels in learned semantic prototypes. Finally, comprehensive experimental results on various datasets demonstrate the efficiency of the proposed method for image annotation tasks in terms of accuracy and time. The reference implementation is publicly available on https://github.com/hamid-amiri/MCDL-Image-Annotation.
You are here! Finding position and orientation on a 2D map from a single image: The Flatlandia localization problem and dataset
We introduce Flatlandia, a novel problem for visual localization of an image from object detections composed of two specific tasks: i) Coarse Map Localization: localizing a single image observing a set of objects in respect to a 2D map of object landmarks; ii) Fine-grained 3DoF Localization: estimating latitude, longitude, and orientation of the image within a 2D map. Solutions for these new tasks exploit the wide availability of open urban maps annotated with GPS locations of common objects (\eg via surveying or crowd-sourced). Such maps are also more storage-friendly than standard large-scale 3D models often used in visual localization while additionally being privacy-preserving. As existing datasets are unsuited for the proposed problem, we provide the Flatlandia dataset, designed for 3DoF visual localization in multiple urban settings and based on crowd-sourced data from five European cities. We use the Flatlandia dataset to validate the complexity of the proposed tasks.
Visual Localization using Imperfect 3D Models from the Internet
Visual localization is a core component in many applications, including augmented reality (AR). Localization algorithms compute the camera pose of a query image w.r.t. a scene representation, which is typically built from images. This often requires capturing and storing large amounts of data, followed by running Structure-from-Motion (SfM) algorithms. An interesting, and underexplored, source of data for building scene representations are 3D models that are readily available on the Internet, e.g., hand-drawn CAD models, 3D models generated from building footprints, or from aerial images. These models allow to perform visual localization right away without the time-consuming scene capturing and model building steps. Yet, it also comes with challenges as the available 3D models are often imperfect reflections of reality. E.g., the models might only have generic or no textures at all, might only provide a simple approximation of the scene geometry, or might be stretched. This paper studies how the imperfections of these models affect localization accuracy. We create a new benchmark for this task and provide a detailed experimental evaluation based on multiple 3D models per scene. We show that 3D models from the Internet show promise as an easy-to-obtain scene representation. At the same time, there is significant room for improvement for visual localization pipelines. To foster research on this interesting and challenging task, we release our benchmark at v-pnk.github.io/cadloc.
Are Local Features All You Need for Cross-Domain Visual Place Recognition?
Visual Place Recognition is a task that aims to predict the coordinates of an image (called query) based solely on visual clues. Most commonly, a retrieval approach is adopted, where the query is matched to the most similar images from a large database of geotagged photos, using learned global descriptors. Despite recent advances, recognizing the same place when the query comes from a significantly different distribution is still a major hurdle for state of the art retrieval methods. Examples are heavy illumination changes (e.g. night-time images) or substantial occlusions (e.g. transient objects). In this work we explore whether re-ranking methods based on spatial verification can tackle these challenges, following the intuition that local descriptors are inherently more robust than global features to domain shifts. To this end, we provide a new, comprehensive benchmark on current state of the art models. We also introduce two new demanding datasets with night and occluded queries, to be matched against a city-wide database. Code and datasets are available at https://github.com/gbarbarani/re-ranking-for-VPR.
Unicom: Universal and Compact Representation Learning for Image Retrieval
Modern image retrieval methods typically rely on fine-tuning pre-trained encoders to extract image-level descriptors. However, the most widely used models are pre-trained on ImageNet-1K with limited classes. The pre-trained feature representation is therefore not universal enough to generalize well to the diverse open-world classes. In this paper, we first cluster the large-scale LAION400M into one million pseudo classes based on the joint textual and visual features extracted by the CLIP model. Due to the confusion of label granularity, the automatically clustered dataset inevitably contains heavy inter-class conflict. To alleviate such conflict, we randomly select partial inter-class prototypes to construct the margin-based softmax loss. To further enhance the low-dimensional feature representation, we randomly select partial feature dimensions when calculating the similarities between embeddings and class-wise prototypes. The dual random partial selections are with respect to the class dimension and the feature dimension of the prototype matrix, making the classification conflict-robust and the feature embedding compact. Our method significantly outperforms state-of-the-art unsupervised and supervised image retrieval approaches on multiple benchmarks. The code and pre-trained models are released to facilitate future research https://github.com/deepglint/unicom.
Open-TransMind: A New Baseline and Benchmark for 1st Foundation Model Challenge of Intelligent Transportation
With the continuous improvement of computing power and deep learning algorithms in recent years, the foundation model has grown in popularity. Because of its powerful capabilities and excellent performance, this technology is being adopted and applied by an increasing number of industries. In the intelligent transportation industry, artificial intelligence faces the following typical challenges: few shots, poor generalization, and a lack of multi-modal techniques. Foundation model technology can significantly alleviate the aforementioned issues. To address these, we designed the 1st Foundation Model Challenge, with the goal of increasing the popularity of foundation model technology in traffic scenarios and promoting the rapid development of the intelligent transportation industry. The challenge is divided into two tracks: all-in-one and cross-modal image retrieval. Furthermore, we provide a new baseline and benchmark for the two tracks, called Open-TransMind. According to our knowledge, Open-TransMind is the first open-source transportation foundation model with multi-task and multi-modal capabilities. Simultaneously, Open-TransMind can achieve state-of-the-art performance on detection, classification, and segmentation datasets of traffic scenarios. Our source code is available at https://github.com/Traffic-X/Open-TransMind.
SGL: Structure Guidance Learning for Camera Localization
Camera localization is a classical computer vision task that serves various Artificial Intelligence and Robotics applications. With the rapid developments of Deep Neural Networks (DNNs), end-to-end visual localization methods are prosperous in recent years. In this work, we focus on the scene coordinate prediction ones and propose a network architecture named as Structure Guidance Learning (SGL) which utilizes the receptive branch and the structure branch to extract both high-level and low-level features to estimate the 3D coordinates. We design a confidence strategy to refine and filter the predicted 3D observations, which enables us to estimate the camera poses by employing the Perspective-n-Point (PnP) with RANSAC. In the training part, we design the Bundle Adjustment trainer to help the network fit the scenes better. Comparisons with some state-of-the-art (SOTA) methods and sufficient ablation experiments confirm the validity of our proposed architecture.
Loop Closure Detection Based on Object-level Spatial Layout and Semantic Consistency
Visual simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) systems face challenges in detecting loop closure under the circumstance of large viewpoint changes. In this paper, we present an object-based loop closure detection method based on the spatial layout and semanic consistency of the 3D scene graph. Firstly, we propose an object-level data association approach based on the semantic information from semantic labels, intersection over union (IoU), object color, and object embedding. Subsequently, multi-view bundle adjustment with the associated objects is utilized to jointly optimize the poses of objects and cameras. We represent the refined objects as a 3D spatial graph with semantics and topology. Then, we propose a graph matching approach to select correspondence objects based on the structure layout and semantic property similarity of vertices' neighbors. Finally, we jointly optimize camera trajectories and object poses in an object-level pose graph optimization, which results in a globally consistent map. Experimental results demonstrate that our proposed data association approach can construct more accurate 3D semantic maps, and our loop closure method is more robust than point-based and object-based methods in circumstances with large viewpoint changes.
CAVL: Learning Contrastive and Adaptive Representations of Vision and Language
Visual and linguistic pre-training aims to learn vision and language representations together, which can be transferred to visual-linguistic downstream tasks. However, there exists semantic confusion between language and vision during the pre-training stage. Moreover, current pre-trained models tend to take lots of computation resources for fine-tuning when transferred to downstream tasks. In this work, we present a simple but effective approach for learning Contrastive and Adaptive representations of Vision and Language, namely CAVL. Specifically, we introduce a pair-wise contrastive loss to learn alignments between the whole sentence and each image in the same batch during the pre-training process. At the fine-tuning stage, we introduce two lightweight adaptation networks to reduce model parameters and increase training speed for saving computation resources. We evaluate our CAVL on six main downstream tasks, including Visual Question Answering (VQA), Visual Commonsense Reasoning (VCR), Natural Language for Visual Reasoning (NLVR), Region-to-Phrase Grounding (RPG), Text-to-Image Retrieval (TIR), and Zero-shot Text-to-Image Retrieval (ZS-TIR). Compared to baselines, we achieve superior performance and reduce the fine-tuning time by a large margin (in particular, 76.17%). Extensive experiments and ablation studies demonstrate the efficiency of contrastive pre-training and adaptive fine-tuning proposed in our CAVL.
Unsupervised Multi-Criteria Adversarial Detection in Deep Image Retrieval
The vulnerability in the algorithm supply chain of deep learning has imposed new challenges to image retrieval systems in the downstream. Among a variety of techniques, deep hashing is gaining popularity. As it inherits the algorithmic backend from deep learning, a handful of attacks are recently proposed to disrupt normal image retrieval. Unfortunately, the defense strategies in softmax classification are not readily available to be applied in the image retrieval domain. In this paper, we propose an efficient and unsupervised scheme to identify unique adversarial behaviors in the hamming space. In particular, we design three criteria from the perspectives of hamming distance, quantization loss and denoising to defend against both untargeted and targeted attacks, which collectively limit the adversarial space. The extensive experiments on four datasets demonstrate 2-23% improvements of detection rates with minimum computational overhead for real-time image queries.
SGIDN-LCD: An Appearance-based Loop Closure Detection Algorithm using Superpixel Grids and Incremental Dynamic Nodes
Loop Closure Detection (LCD) is an essential component of visual simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) systems. It enables the recognition of previously visited scenes to eliminate pose and map estimate drifts arising from long-term exploration. However, current appearance-based LCD methods face significant challenges, including high computational costs, viewpoint variance, and dynamic objects in scenes. This paper introduces an online based on Superpixel Grids (SGs) LCD approach, SGIDN-LCD, to find similarities between scenes via hand-crafted features extracted from SGs. Unlike traditional Bag-of-Words (BoW) models requiring pre-training, we propose an adaptive mechanism to group similar images called $\textbf{\textit{dynamic}}$ $\textbf{\textit{node}}$, which incremental adjusts the database in an online manner, allowing for efficient retrieval of previously viewed images. Experimental results demonstrate the SGIDN-LCD significantly improving LCD precision-recall and efficiency. Moreover, our proposed overall LCD method outperforms state-of-the-art approaches on multiple typical datasets.
$R^{2}$Former: Unified $R$etrieval and $R$eranking Transformer for Place Recognition
Visual Place Recognition (VPR) estimates the location of query images by matching them with images in a reference database. Conventional methods generally adopt aggregated CNN features for global retrieval and RANSAC-based geometric verification for reranking. However, RANSAC only employs geometric information but ignores other possible information that could be useful for reranking, e.g. local feature correlations, and attention values. In this paper, we propose a unified place recognition framework that handles both retrieval and reranking with a novel transformer model, named $R^{2}$Former. The proposed reranking module takes feature correlation, attention value, and xy coordinates into account, and learns to determine whether the image pair is from the same location. The whole pipeline is end-to-end trainable and the reranking module alone can also be adopted on other CNN or transformer backbones as a generic component. Remarkably, $R^{2}$Former significantly outperforms state-of-the-art methods on major VPR datasets with much less inference time and memory consumption. It also achieves the state-of-the-art on the hold-out MSLS challenge set and could serve as a simple yet strong solution for real-world large-scale applications. Experiments also show vision transformer tokens are comparable and sometimes better than CNN local features on local matching. The code is released at https://github.com/Jeff-Zilence/R2Former.
Distributed formation-enforcing control for UAVs robust to observation noise in relative pose measurements
A technique that allows a formation-enforcing control (FEC) derived from graph rigidity theory to interface with a realistic relative localization system is proposed in this paper. Recent research in sensor-based multi-robot control has given rise to multiple modalities of mutual relative localization systems. In particular, vision-based relative localization has reached the stage where it can be carried onboard lightweight UAVs in order to retrieve the relative positions and relative orientations of cooperating units. A separate stream of development spawned distributed formation-enforcing control which can lead individual robots into a desired formation using relative localization of their neighbors. These two fields naturally complement each other by achieving real-world flights of UAVs in formation without the need for absolute localization in the world. However, real relative localization systems are, without exception, burdened by non-negligible sensory noise, which is typically not fully taken into account in formation-enforcing control algorithms. Such noise can lead to rapid changes in velocity, which further interferes with visual localization. Our approach provides a solution to these challenges, enabling practical deployment of FEC under realistic conditions, as we demonstrated in real-world experiments.
Efficient OCR for Building a Diverse Digital History
Thousands of users consult digital archives daily, but the information they can access is unrepresentative of the diversity of documentary history. The sequence-to-sequence architecture typically used for optical character recognition (OCR) - which jointly learns a vision and language model - is poorly extensible to low-resource document collections, as learning a language-vision model requires extensive labeled sequences and compute. This study models OCR as a character level image retrieval problem, using a contrastively trained vision encoder. Because the model only learns characters' visual features, it is more sample efficient and extensible than existing architectures, enabling accurate OCR in settings where existing solutions fail. Crucially, the model opens new avenues for community engagement in making digital history more representative of documentary history.
LogoNet: a fine-grained network for instance-level logo sketch retrieval
Sketch-based image retrieval, which aims to use sketches as queries to retrieve images containing the same query instance, receives increasing attention in recent years. Although dramatic progress has been made in sketch retrieval, few efforts are devoted to logo sketch retrieval which is still hindered by the following challenges: Firstly, logo sketch retrieval is more difficult than typical sketch retrieval problem, since a logo sketch usually contains much less visual contents with only irregular strokes and lines. Secondly, instance-specific sketches demonstrate dramatic appearance variances, making them less identifiable when querying the same logo instance. Thirdly, there exist several sketch retrieval benchmarking datasets nowadays, whereas an instance-level logo sketch dataset is still publicly unavailable. To address the above-mentioned limitations, we make twofold contributions in this study for instance-level logo sketch retrieval. To begin with, we construct an instance-level logo sketch dataset containing 2k logo instances and exceeding 9k sketches. To our knowledge, this is the first publicly available instance-level logo sketch dataset. Next, we develop a fine-grained triple-branch CNN architecture based on hybrid attention mechanism termed LogoNet for accurate logo sketch retrieval. More specifically, we embed the hybrid attention mechanism into the triple-branch architecture for capturing the key query-specific information from the limited visual cues in the logo sketches. Experimental evaluations both on our assembled dataset and public benchmark datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed network.
OrienterNet: Visual Localization in 2D Public Maps with Neural Matching
Humans can orient themselves in their 3D environments using simple 2D maps. Differently, algorithms for visual localization mostly rely on complex 3D point clouds that are expensive to build, store, and maintain over time. We bridge this gap by introducing OrienterNet, the first deep neural network that can localize an image with sub-meter accuracy using the same 2D semantic maps that humans use. OrienterNet estimates the location and orientation of a query image by matching a neural Bird's-Eye View with open and globally available maps from OpenStreetMap, enabling anyone to localize anywhere such maps are available. OrienterNet is supervised only by camera poses but learns to perform semantic matching with a wide range of map elements in an end-to-end manner. To enable this, we introduce a large crowd-sourced dataset of images captured across 12 cities from the diverse viewpoints of cars, bikes, and pedestrians. OrienterNet generalizes to new datasets and pushes the state of the art in both robotics and AR scenarios. The code and trained model will be released publicly.
Cross-Domain Image Captioning with Discriminative Finetuning
Neural captioners are typically trained to mimic human-generated references without optimizing for any specific communication goal, leading to problems such as the generation of vague captions. In this paper, we show that fine-tuning an out-of-the-box neural captioner with a self-supervised discriminative communication objective helps to recover a plain, visually descriptive language that is more informative about image contents. Given a target image, the system must learn to produce a description that enables an out-of-the-box text-conditioned image retriever to identify such image among a set of candidates. We experiment with the popular ClipCap captioner, also replicating the main results with BLIP. In terms of similarity to ground-truth human descriptions, the captions emerging from discriminative finetuning lag slightly behind those generated by the non-finetuned model, when the latter is trained and tested on the same caption dataset. However, when the model is used without further tuning to generate captions for out-of-domain datasets, our discriminatively-finetuned captioner generates descriptions that resemble human references more than those produced by the same captioner without finetuning. We further show that, on the Conceptual Captions dataset, discriminatively finetuned captions are more helpful than either vanilla ClipCap captions or ground-truth captions for human annotators tasked with an image discrimination task.
Learning Similarity between Scene Graphs and Images with Transformers
Scene graph generation is conventionally evaluated by (mean) Recall@K, which measures the ratio of correctly predicted triplets that appear in the ground truth. However, such triplet-oriented metrics cannot capture the global semantic information of scene graphs, and measure the similarity between images and generated scene graphs. The usability of scene graphs is therefore limited in downstream tasks. To address this issue, a framework that can measure the similarity of scene graphs and images is urgently required. Motivated by the successful application of Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP), we propose a novel contrastive learning framework consisting of a graph Transformer and an image Transformer to align scene graphs and their corresponding images in the shared latent space. To enable the graph Transformer to comprehend the scene graph structure and extract representative features, we introduce a graph serialization technique that transforms a scene graph into a sequence with structural encoding. Based on our framework, we introduce R-Precision measuring image retrieval accuracy as a new evaluation metric for scene graph generation and establish new benchmarks for the Visual Genome and Open Images datasets. A series of experiments are further conducted to demonstrate the effectiveness of the graph Transformer, which shows great potential as a scene graph encoder.
NPR: Nocturnal Place Recognition in Streets
Visual Place Recognition (VPR) is the task of retrieving database images similar to a query photo by comparing it to a large database of known images. In real-world applications, extreme illumination changes caused by query images taken at night pose a significant obstacle that VPR needs to overcome. However, a training set with day-night correspondence for city-scale, street-level VPR does not exist. To address this challenge, we propose a novel pipeline that divides VPR and conquers Nocturnal Place Recognition (NPR). Specifically, we first established a street-level day-night dataset, NightStreet, and used it to train an unpaired image-to-image translation model. Then we used this model to process existing large-scale VPR datasets to generate the VPR-Night datasets and demonstrated how to combine them with two popular VPR pipelines. Finally, we proposed a divide-and-conquer VPR framework and provided explanations at the theoretical, experimental, and application levels. Under our framework, previous methods can significantly improve performance on two public datasets, including the top-ranked method.
Unsupervised crack detection on complex stone masonry surfaces
Computer vision for detecting building pathologies has interested researchers for quite some time. Vision-based crack detection is a non-destructive assessment technique, which can be useful especially for Cultural Heritage (CH) where strict regulations apply and, even simple, interventions are not permitted. Recently, shallow and deep machine learning architectures applied on various types of imagery are gaining ground. In this article a crack detection methodology for stone masonry walls is presented. In the proposed approach, crack detection is approached as an unsupervised anomaly detection problem on RGB (Red Green Blue) image patches. Towards this direction, some of the most popular state of the art CNN (Convolutional Neural Network) architectures are deployed and modified to binary classify the images or image patches by predicting a specific class for the tested imagery; 'Crack' or 'No crack', and detect and localize those cracks on the RGB imagery with high accuracy. Testing of the model was performed on various test sites and random images retrieved from the internet and collected by the authors and results suggested the high performance of specific networks compared to the rest, considering also the small numbers of epochs required for training. Those results met the accuracy delivered by more complex and computationally heavy approaches, requiring a large amount of data for training. Source code is available on GitHub https://github.com/pagraf/Crack-detection while datasets are available on Zenodo https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.6516913 .
If At First You Don't Succeed: Test Time Re-ranking for Zero-shot, Cross-domain Retrieval
In this paper we propose a novel method for zero-shot, cross-domain image retrieval in which we make two key contributions. The first is a test-time re-ranking procedure that enables query-gallery pairs, without meaningful shared visual features, to be matched by incorporating gallery-gallery ranks into an iterative re-ranking process. The second is the use of cross-attention at training time and knowledge distillation to encourage cross-attention-like features to be extracted at test time from a single image. When combined with the Vision Transformer architecture and zero-shot retrieval losses, our approach yields state-of-the-art results on the Sketchy and TU-Berlin sketch-based image retrieval benchmarks. However, unlike many previous methods, none of the components in our approach are engineered specifically towards the sketch-based image retrieval task - it can be generally applied to any cross-domain, zero-shot retrieval task. We therefore also show results on zero-shot cartoon-to-photo retrieval using the Office-Home dataset.
Vision-Language Modelling For Radiological Imaging and Reports In The Low Data Regime
This paper explores training medical vision-language models (VLMs) -- where the visual and language inputs are embedded into a common space -- with a particular focus on scenarios where training data is limited, as is often the case in clinical datasets. We explore several candidate methods to improve low-data performance, including: (i) adapting generic pre-trained models to novel image and text domains (i.e. medical imaging and reports) via unimodal self-supervision; (ii) using local (e.g. GLoRIA) & global (e.g. InfoNCE) contrastive loss functions as well as a combination of the two; (iii) extra supervision during VLM training, via: (a) image- and text-only self-supervision, and (b) creating additional positive image-text pairs for training through augmentation and nearest-neighbour search.   Using text-to-image retrieval as a benchmark, we evaluate the performance of these methods with variable sized training datasets of paired chest X-rays and radiological reports. Combined, they significantly improve retrieval compared to fine-tuning CLIP, roughly equivalent to training with the data. A similar pattern is found in the downstream task classification of CXR-related conditions with our method outperforming CLIP and also BioVIL, a strong CXR VLM benchmark, in the zero-shot and linear probing settings. We conclude with a set of recommendations for researchers aiming to train vision-language models on other medical imaging modalities when training data is scarce. To facilitate further research, we will make our code and models publicly available.
3D Line Mapping Revisited
In contrast to sparse keypoints, a handful of line segments can concisely encode the high-level scene layout, as they often delineate the main structural elements. In addition to offering strong geometric cues, they are also omnipresent in urban landscapes and indoor scenes. Despite their apparent advantages, current line-based reconstruction methods are far behind their point-based counterparts. In this paper we aim to close the gap by introducing LIMAP, a library for 3D line mapping that robustly and efficiently creates 3D line maps from multi-view imagery. This is achieved through revisiting the degeneracy problem of line triangulation, carefully crafted scoring and track building, and exploiting structural priors such as line coincidence, parallelism, and orthogonality. Our code integrates seamlessly with existing point-based Structure-from-Motion methods and can leverage their 3D points to further improve the line reconstruction. Furthermore, as a byproduct, the method is able to recover 3D association graphs between lines and points / vanishing points (VPs). In thorough experiments, we show that LIMAP significantly outperforms existing approaches for 3D line mapping. Our robust 3D line maps also open up new research directions. We show two example applications: visual localization and bundle adjustment, where integrating lines alongside points yields the best results. Code is available at https://github.com/cvg/limap.
Methods and advancement of content-based fashion image retrieval: A Review
Content-based fashion image retrieval (CBFIR) has been widely used in our daily life for searching fashion images or items from online platforms. In e-commerce purchasing, the CBFIR system can retrieve fashion items or products with the same or comparable features when a consumer uploads a reference image, image with text, sketch or visual stream from their daily life. This lowers the CBFIR system reliance on text and allows for a more accurate and direct searching of the desired fashion product. Considering recent developments, CBFIR still has limits when it comes to visual searching in the real world due to the simultaneous availability of multiple fashion items, occlusion of fashion products, and shape deformation. This paper focuses on CBFIR methods with the guidance of images, images with text, sketches, and videos. Accordingly, we categorized CBFIR methods into four main categories, i.e., image-guided CBFIR (with the addition of attributes and styles), image and text-guided, sketch-guided, and video-guided CBFIR methods. The baseline methodologies have been thoroughly analyzed, and the most recent developments in CBFIR over the past six years (2017 to 2022) have been thoroughly examined. Finally, key issues are highlighted for CBFIR with promising directions for future research.
Adaptive Cross Batch Normalization for Metric Learning
Metric learning is a fundamental problem in computer vision whereby a model is trained to learn a semantically useful embedding space via ranking losses. Traditionally, the effectiveness of a ranking loss depends on the minibatch size, and is, therefore, inherently limited by the memory constraints of the underlying hardware. While simply accumulating the embeddings across minibatches has proved useful (Wang et al. [2020]), we show that it is equally important to ensure that the accumulated embeddings are up to date. In particular, it is necessary to circumvent the representational drift between the accumulated embeddings and the feature embeddings at the current training iteration as the learnable parameters are being updated. In this paper, we model representational drift as distribution misalignment and tackle it using moment matching. The result is a simple method for updating the stored embeddings to match the first and second moments of the current embeddings at each training iteration. Experiments on three popular image retrieval datasets, namely, SOP, In-Shop, and DeepFashion2, demonstrate that our approach significantly improves the performance in all scenarios.
MaMMUT: A Simple Architecture for Joint Learning for MultiModal Tasks
The development of language models have moved from encoder-decoder to decoder-only designs. In addition, the common knowledge has it that the two most popular multimodal tasks, the generative and contrastive tasks, tend to conflict with one another, are hard to accommodate in one architecture, and further need complex adaptations for downstream tasks. We propose a novel paradigm of training with a decoder-only model for multimodal tasks, which is surprisingly effective in jointly learning of these disparate vision-language tasks. This is done with a simple model, called MaMMUT. It consists of a single vision encoder and a text decoder, and is able to accommodate contrastive and generative learning by a novel two-pass approach on the text decoder. We demonstrate that joint learning of these diverse objectives is simple, effective, and maximizes the weight-sharing of the model across these tasks. Furthermore, the same architecture enables straightforward extensions to open-vocabulary object detection and video-language tasks. The model tackles a diverse range of tasks, while being modest in capacity. Our model achieves the state of the art on image-text and text-image retrieval, video question answering and open-vocabulary detection tasks, outperforming much larger and more extensively trained foundational models. It shows very competitive results on VQA and Video Captioning, especially considering its capacity. Ablations confirm the flexibility and advantages of our approach.
Sketch-an-Anchor: Sub-epoch Fast Model Adaptation for Zero-shot Sketch-based Image Retrieval
Sketch-an-Anchor is a novel method to train state-of-the-art Zero-shot Sketch-based Image Retrieval (ZSSBIR) models in under an epoch. Most studies break down the problem of ZSSBIR into two parts: domain alignment between images and sketches, inherited from SBIR, and generalization to unseen data, inherent to the zero-shot protocol. We argue one of these problems can be considerably simplified and re-frame the ZSSBIR problem around the already-stellar yet underexplored Zero-shot Image-based Retrieval performance of off-the-shelf models. Our fast-converging model keeps the single-domain performance while learning to extract similar representations from sketches. To this end we introduce our Semantic Anchors -- guiding embeddings learned from word-based semantic spaces and features from off-the-shelf models -- and combine them with our novel Anchored Contrastive Loss. Empirical evidence shows we can achieve state-of-the-art performance on all benchmark datasets while training for 100x less iterations than other methods.
Bi-directional Training for Composed Image Retrieval via Text Prompt Learning
Composed image retrieval searches for a target image based on a multi-modal user query comprised of a reference image and modification text describing the desired changes. Existing approaches to solving this challenging task learn a mapping from the (reference image, modification text)-pair to an image embedding that is then matched against a large image corpus. One area that has not yet been explored is the reverse direction, which asks the question, what reference image when modified as describe by the text would produce the given target image? In this work we propose a bi-directional training scheme that leverages such reversed queries and can be applied to existing composed image retrieval architectures. To encode the bi-directional query we prepend a learnable token to the modification text that designates the direction of the query and then finetune the parameters of the text embedding module. We make no other changes to the network architecture. Experiments on two standard datasets show that our novel approach achieves improved performance over a baseline BLIP-based model that itself already achieves state-of-the-art performance.
Model Cascades for Efficient Image Search
Modern neural encoders offer unprecedented text-image retrieval (TIR) accuracy. However, their high computational cost impedes an adoption to large-scale image searches. We propose a novel image ranking algorithm that uses a cascade of increasingly powerful neural encoders to progressively filter images by how well they match a given text. Our algorithm reduces lifetime TIR costs by over 3x.
Zero-Shot Composed Image Retrieval with Textual Inversion
Composed Image Retrieval (CIR) aims to retrieve a target image based on a query composed of a reference image and a relative caption that describes the difference between the two images. The high effort and cost required for labeling datasets for CIR hamper the widespread usage of existing methods, as they rely on supervised learning. In this work, we propose a new task, Zero-Shot CIR (ZS-CIR), that aims to address CIR without requiring a labeled training dataset. Our approach, named zero-Shot composEd imAge Retrieval with textuaL invErsion (SEARLE), maps the visual features of the reference image into a pseudo-word token in CLIP token embedding space and integrates it with the relative caption. To support research on ZS-CIR, we introduce an open-domain benchmarking dataset named Composed Image Retrieval on Common Objects in context (CIRCO), which is the first dataset for CIR containing multiple ground truths for each query. The experiments show that SEARLE exhibits better performance than the baselines on the two main datasets for CIR tasks, FashionIQ and CIRR, and on the proposed CIRCO. The dataset, the code and the model are publicly available at https://github.com/miccunifi/SEARLE .
What Can Human Sketches Do for Object Detection?
Sketches are highly expressive, inherently capturing subjective and fine-grained visual cues. The exploration of such innate properties of human sketches has, however, been limited to that of image retrieval. In this paper, for the first time, we cultivate the expressiveness of sketches but for the fundamental vision task of object detection. The end result is a sketch-enabled object detection framework that detects based on what \textit{you} sketch -- \textit{that} ``zebra'' (e.g., one that is eating the grass) in a herd of zebras (instance-aware detection), and only the \textit{part} (e.g., ``head" of a ``zebra") that you desire (part-aware detection). We further dictate that our model works without (i) knowing which category to expect at testing (zero-shot) and (ii) not requiring additional bounding boxes (as per fully supervised) and class labels (as per weakly supervised). Instead of devising a model from the ground up, we show an intuitive synergy between foundation models (e.g., CLIP) and existing sketch models build for sketch-based image retrieval (SBIR), which can already elegantly solve the task -- CLIP to provide model generalisation, and SBIR to bridge the (sketch$\rightarrow$photo) gap. In particular, we first perform independent prompting on both sketch and photo branches of an SBIR model to build highly generalisable sketch and photo encoders on the back of the generalisation ability of CLIP. We then devise a training paradigm to adapt the learned encoders for object detection, such that the region embeddings of detected boxes are aligned with the sketch and photo embeddings from SBIR. Evaluating our framework on standard object detection datasets like PASCAL-VOC and MS-COCO outperforms both supervised (SOD) and weakly-supervised object detectors (WSOD) on zero-shot setups. Project Page: \url{https://pinakinathc.github.io/sketch-detect}
Zero-Shot Everything Sketch-Based Image Retrieval, and in Explainable Style
This paper studies the problem of zero-short sketch-based image retrieval (ZS-SBIR), however with two significant differentiators to prior art (i) we tackle all variants (inter-category, intra-category, and cross datasets) of ZS-SBIR with just one network (``everything''), and (ii) we would really like to understand how this sketch-photo matching operates (``explainable''). Our key innovation lies with the realization that such a cross-modal matching problem could be reduced to comparisons of groups of key local patches -- akin to the seasoned ``bag-of-words'' paradigm. Just with this change, we are able to achieve both of the aforementioned goals, with the added benefit of no longer requiring external semantic knowledge. Technically, ours is a transformer-based cross-modal network, with three novel components (i) a self-attention module with a learnable tokenizer to produce visual tokens that correspond to the most informative local regions, (ii) a cross-attention module to compute local correspondences between the visual tokens across two modalities, and finally (iii) a kernel-based relation network to assemble local putative matches and produce an overall similarity metric for a sketch-photo pair. Experiments show ours indeed delivers superior performances across all ZS-SBIR settings. The all important explainable goal is elegantly achieved by visualizing cross-modal token correspondences, and for the first time, via sketch to photo synthesis by universal replacement of all matched photo patches. Code and model are available at \url{https://github.com/buptLinfy/ZSE-SBIR}.
A-MuSIC: An Adaptive Ensemble System For Visual Place Recognition In Changing Environments
Visual place recognition (VPR) is an essential component of robot navigation and localization systems that allows them to identify a place using only image data. VPR is challenging due to the significant changes in a place's appearance under different illumination throughout the day, with seasonal weather and when observed from different viewpoints. Currently, no single VPR technique excels in every environmental condition, each exhibiting unique benefits and shortcomings. As a result, VPR systems combining multiple techniques achieve more reliable VPR performance in changing environments, at the cost of higher computational loads. Addressing this shortcoming, we propose an adaptive VPR system dubbed Adaptive Multi-Self Identification and Correction (A-MuSIC). We start by developing a method to collect information of the runtime performance of a VPR technique by analysing the frame-to-frame continuity of matched queries. We then demonstrate how to operate the method on a static ensemble of techniques, generating data on which techniques are contributing the most for the current environment. A-MuSIC uses the collected information to both select a minimal subset of techniques and to decide when a re-selection is required during navigation. A-MuSIC matches or beats state-of-the-art VPR performance across all tested benchmark datasets while maintaining its computational load on par with individual techniques.
PanoVPR: Towards Unified Perspective-to-Equirectangular Visual Place Recognition via Sliding Windows across the Panoramic View
Visual place recognition has received increasing attention in recent years as a key technology in autonomous driving and robotics. The current mainstream approaches use either the perspective view retrieval perspective view (P2P) paradigm or the equirectangular image retrieval equirectangular image (E2E) paradigm. However, a natural and practical idea is that users only have consumer-grade pinhole cameras to obtain query perspective images and retrieve them in panoramic database images from map providers. To this end, we propose PanoVPR, a sliding-window-based perspective-to-equirectangular (P2E) visual place recognition framework, which eliminates feature truncation caused by hard cropping by sliding windows over the whole equirectangular image and computing and comparing feature descriptors between windows. In addition, this unified framework allows for directly transferring the network structure used in perspective-to-perspective (P2P) methods without modification. To facilitate training and evaluation, we derive the pitts250k-P2E dataset from the pitts250k and achieve promising results, and we also establish a P2E dataset in a real-world scenario by a mobile robot platform, which we refer to YQ360. Code and datasets will be made available at https://github.com/zafirshi/PanoVPR.
Exploiting Unlabelled Photos for Stronger Fine-Grained SBIR
This paper advances the fine-grained sketch-based image retrieval (FG-SBIR) literature by putting forward a strong baseline that overshoots prior state-of-the-arts by ~11%. This is not via complicated design though, but by addressing two critical issues facing the community (i) the gold standard triplet loss does not enforce holistic latent space geometry, and (ii) there are never enough sketches to train a high accuracy model. For the former, we propose a simple modification to the standard triplet loss, that explicitly enforces separation amongst photos/sketch instances. For the latter, we put forward a novel knowledge distillation module can leverage photo data for model training. Both modules are then plugged into a novel plug-n-playable training paradigm that allows for more stable training. More specifically, for (i) we employ an intra-modal triplet loss amongst sketches to bring sketches of the same instance closer from others, and one more amongst photos to push away different photo instances while bringing closer a structurally augmented version of the same photo (offering a gain of ~4-6%). To tackle (ii), we first pre-train a teacher on the large set of unlabelled photos over the aforementioned intra-modal photo triplet loss. Then we distill the contextual similarity present amongst the instances in the teacher's embedding space to that in the student's embedding space, by matching the distribution over inter-feature distances of respective samples in both embedding spaces (delivering a further gain of ~4-5%). Apart from outperforming prior arts significantly, our model also yields satisfactory results on generalising to new classes. Project page: https://aneeshan95.github.io/Sketch_PVT/
CLIP for All Things Zero-Shot Sketch-Based Image Retrieval, Fine-Grained or Not
In this paper, we leverage CLIP for zero-shot sketch based image retrieval (ZS-SBIR). We are largely inspired by recent advances on foundation models and the unparalleled generalisation ability they seem to offer, but for the first time tailor it to benefit the sketch community. We put forward novel designs on how best to achieve this synergy, for both the category setting and the fine-grained setting ("all"). At the very core of our solution is a prompt learning setup. First we show just via factoring in sketch-specific prompts, we already have a category-level ZS-SBIR system that overshoots all prior arts, by a large margin (24.8%) - a great testimony on studying the CLIP and ZS-SBIR synergy. Moving onto the fine-grained setup is however trickier, and requires a deeper dive into this synergy. For that, we come up with two specific designs to tackle the fine-grained matching nature of the problem: (i) an additional regularisation loss to ensure the relative separation between sketches and photos is uniform across categories, which is not the case for the gold standard standalone triplet loss, and (ii) a clever patch shuffling technique to help establishing instance-level structural correspondences between sketch-photo pairs. With these designs, we again observe significant performance gains in the region of 26.9% over previous state-of-the-art. The take-home message, if any, is the proposed CLIP and prompt learning paradigm carries great promise in tackling other sketch-related tasks (not limited to ZS-SBIR) where data scarcity remains a great challenge. Project page: https://aneeshan95.github.io/Sketch_LVM/
Reliable and Efficient Evaluation of Adversarial Robustness for Deep Hashing-Based Retrieval
Deep hashing has been extensively applied to massive image retrieval due to its efficiency and effectiveness. Recently, several adversarial attacks have been presented to reveal the vulnerability of deep hashing models against adversarial examples. However, existing attack methods suffer from degraded performance or inefficiency because they underutilize the semantic relations between original samples or spend a lot of time learning these relations with a deep neural network. In this paper, we propose a novel Pharos-guided Attack, dubbed PgA, to evaluate the adversarial robustness of deep hashing networks reliably and efficiently. Specifically, we design pharos code to represent the semantics of the benign image, which preserves the similarity to semantically relevant samples and dissimilarity to irrelevant ones. It is proven that we can quickly calculate the pharos code via a simple math formula. Accordingly, PgA can directly conduct a reliable and efficient attack on deep hashing-based retrieval by maximizing the similarity between the hash code of the adversarial example and the pharos code. Extensive experiments on the benchmark datasets verify that the proposed algorithm outperforms the prior state-of-the-arts in both attack strength and speed.
CompoDiff: Versatile Composed Image Retrieval With Latent Diffusion
This paper proposes a novel diffusion-based model, CompoDiff, for solving Composed Image Retrieval (CIR) with latent diffusion and presents a newly created dataset of 18 million reference images, conditions, and corresponding target image triplets to train the model. CompoDiff not only achieves a new zero-shot state-of-the-art on a CIR benchmark such as FashionIQ but also enables a more versatile CIR by accepting various conditions, such as negative text and image mask conditions, which are unavailable with existing CIR methods. In addition, the CompoDiff features are on the intact CLIP embedding space so that they can be directly used for all existing models exploiting the CLIP space. The code and dataset used for the training, and the pre-trained weights are available at https://github.com/navervision/CompoDiff
LIMITR: Leveraging Local Information for Medical Image-Text Representation
Medical imaging analysis plays a critical role in the diagnosis and treatment of various medical conditions. This paper focuses on chest X-ray images and their corresponding radiological reports. It presents a new model that learns a joint X-ray image & report representation. The model is based on a novel alignment scheme between the visual data and the text, which takes into account both local and global information. Furthermore, the model integrates domain-specific information of two types -- lateral images and the consistent visual structure of chest images. Our representation is shown to benefit three types of retrieval tasks: text-image retrieval, class-based retrieval, and phrase-grounding.
Data-efficient Large Scale Place Recognition with Graded Similarity Supervision
Visual place recognition (VPR) is a fundamental task of computer vision for visual localization. Existing methods are trained using image pairs that either depict the same place or not. Such a binary indication does not consider continuous relations of similarity between images of the same place taken from different positions, determined by the continuous nature of camera pose. The binary similarity induces a noisy supervision signal into the training of VPR methods, which stall in local minima and require expensive hard mining algorithms to guarantee convergence. Motivated by the fact that two images of the same place only partially share visual cues due to camera pose differences, we deploy an automatic re-annotation strategy to re-label VPR datasets. We compute graded similarity labels for image pairs based on available localization metadata. Furthermore, we propose a new Generalized Contrastive Loss (GCL) that uses graded similarity labels for training contrastive networks. We demonstrate that the use of the new labels and GCL allow to dispense from hard-pair mining, and to train image descriptors that perform better in VPR by nearest neighbor search, obtaining superior or comparable results than methods that require expensive hard-pair mining and re-ranking techniques. Code and models available at: https://github.com/marialeyvallina/generalized_contrastive_loss
Picture that Sketch: Photorealistic Image Generation from Abstract Sketches
Given an abstract, deformed, ordinary sketch from untrained amateurs like you and me, this paper turns it into a photorealistic image - just like those shown in Fig. 1(a), all non-cherry-picked. We differ significantly from prior art in that we do not dictate an edgemap-like sketch to start with, but aim to work with abstract free-hand human sketches. In doing so, we essentially democratise the sketch-to-photo pipeline, "picturing" a sketch regardless of how good you sketch. Our contribution at the outset is a decoupled encoder-decoder training paradigm, where the decoder is a StyleGAN trained on photos only. This importantly ensures that generated results are always photorealistic. The rest is then all centred around how best to deal with the abstraction gap between sketch and photo. For that, we propose an autoregressive sketch mapper trained on sketch-photo pairs that maps a sketch to the StyleGAN latent space. We further introduce specific designs to tackle the abstract nature of human sketches, including a fine-grained discriminative loss on the back of a trained sketch-photo retrieval model, and a partial-aware sketch augmentation strategy. Finally, we showcase a few downstream tasks our generation model enables, amongst them is showing how fine-grained sketch-based image retrieval, a well-studied problem in the sketch community, can be reduced to an image (generated) to image retrieval task, surpassing state-of-the-arts. We put forward generated results in the supplementary for everyone to scrutinise.
Deep Declarative Dynamic Time Warping for End-to-End Learning of Alignment Paths
This paper addresses learning end-to-end models for time series data that include a temporal alignment step via dynamic time warping (DTW). Existing approaches to differentiable DTW either differentiate through a fixed warping path or apply a differentiable relaxation to the min operator found in the recursive steps used to solve the DTW problem. We instead propose a DTW layer based around bi-level optimisation and deep declarative networks, which we name DecDTW. By formulating DTW as a continuous, inequality constrained optimisation problem, we can compute gradients for the solution of the optimal alignment (with respect to the underlying time series) using implicit differentiation. An interesting byproduct of this formulation is that DecDTW outputs the optimal warping path between two time series as opposed to a soft approximation, recoverable from Soft-DTW. We show that this property is particularly useful for applications where downstream loss functions are defined on the optimal alignment path itself. This naturally occurs, for instance, when learning to improve the accuracy of predicted alignments against ground truth alignments. We evaluate DecDTW on two such applications, namely the audio-to-score alignment task in music information retrieval and the visual place recognition task in robotics, demonstrating state-of-the-art results in both.
MRIS: A Multi-modal Retrieval Approach for Image Synthesis on Diverse Modalities
Multiple imaging modalities are often used for disease diagnosis, prediction, or population-based analyses. However, not all modalities might be available due to cost, different study designs, or changes in imaging technology. If the differences between the types of imaging are small, data harmonization approaches can be used; for larger changes, direct image synthesis approaches have been explored. In this paper, we develop an approach based on multi-modal metric learning to synthesize images of diverse modalities. We use metric learning via multi-modal image retrieval, resulting in embeddings that can relate images of different modalities. Given a large image database, the learned image embeddings allow us to use k-nearest neighbor (k-NN) regression for image synthesis. Our driving medical problem is knee osteoarthritis (KOA), but our developed method is general after proper image alignment. We test our approach by synthesizing cartilage thickness maps obtained from 3D magnetic resonance (MR) images using 2D radiographs. Our experiments show that the proposed method outperforms direct image synthesis and that the synthesized thickness maps retain information relevant to downstream tasks such as progression prediction and Kellgren-Lawrence grading (KLG). Our results suggest that retrieval approaches can be used to obtain high-quality and meaningful image synthesis results given large image databases.
IRGen: Generative Modeling for Image Retrieval
While generative modeling has been ubiquitous in natural language processing and computer vision, its application to image retrieval remains unexplored. In this paper, we recast image retrieval as a form of generative modeling by employing a sequence-to-sequence model, contributing to the current unified theme. Our framework, IRGen, is a unified model that enables end-to-end differentiable search, thus achieving superior performance thanks to direct optimization. While developing IRGen we tackle the key technical challenge of converting an image into quite a short sequence of semantic units in order to enable efficient and effective retrieval. Empirical experiments demonstrate that our model yields significant improvement over three commonly used benchmarks, for example, 22.9\% higher than the best baseline method in precision@10 on In-shop dataset with comparable recall@10 score.
Data Roaming and Early Fusion for Composed Image Retrieval
We study the task of Composed Image Retrieval (CoIR), where a query is composed of two modalities, image and text, extending the user's expression ability. Previous methods typically address this task by a separate encoding of each query modality, followed by late fusion of the extracted features. In this paper, we propose a new approach, Cross-Attention driven Shift Encoder (CASE), employing early fusion between modalities through a cross-attention module with an additional auxiliary task. We show that our method outperforms the existing state-of-the-art, on established benchmarks (FashionIQ and CIRR) by a large margin. However, CoIR datasets are a few orders of magnitude smaller compared to other vision and language (V&L) datasets, and some suffer from serious flaws (e.g., queries with a redundant modality). We address these shortcomings by introducing Large Scale Composed Image Retrieval (LaSCo), a new CoIR dataset x10 times larger than current ones. Pre-training on LaSCo yields a further performance boost. We further suggest a new analysis of CoIR datasets and methods, for detecting modality redundancy or necessity, in queries.
Towards a Smaller Student: Capacity Dynamic Distillation for Efficient Image Retrieval
Previous Knowledge Distillation based efficient image retrieval methods employs a lightweight network as the student model for fast inference. However, the lightweight student model lacks adequate representation capacity for effective knowledge imitation during the most critical early training period, causing final performance degeneration. To tackle this issue, we propose a Capacity Dynamic Distillation framework, which constructs a student model with editable representation capacity. Specifically, the employed student model is initially a heavy model to fruitfully learn distilled knowledge in the early training epochs, and the student model is gradually compressed during the training. To dynamically adjust the model capacity, our dynamic framework inserts a learnable convolutional layer within each residual block in the student model as the channel importance indicator. The indicator is optimized simultaneously by the image retrieval loss and the compression loss, and a retrieval-guided gradient resetting mechanism is proposed to release the gradient conflict. Extensive experiments show that our method has superior inference speed and accuracy, e.g., on the VeRi-776 dataset, given the ResNet101 as a teacher, our method saves 67.13% model parameters and 65.67% FLOPs (around 24.13% and 21.94% higher than state-of-the-arts) without sacrificing accuracy (around 2.11% mAP higher than state-of-the-arts).
Metric-Free Exploration for Topological Mapping by Task and Motion Imitation in Feature Space
We propose DeepExplorer, a simple and lightweight metric-free exploration method for topological mapping of unknown environments. It performs task and motion planning (TAMP) entirely in image feature space. The task planner is a recurrent network using the latest image observation sequence to hallucinate a feature as the next-best exploration goal. The motion planner then utilizes the current and the hallucinated features to generate an action taking the agent towards that goal. The two planners are jointly trained via deeply-supervised imitation learning from expert demonstrations. During exploration, we iteratively call the two planners to predict the next action, and the topological map is built by constantly appending the latest image observation and action to the map and using visual place recognition (VPR) for loop closing. The resulting topological map efficiently represents an environment's connectivity and traversability, so it can be used for tasks such as visual navigation. We show DeepExplorer's exploration efficiency and strong sim2sim generalization capability on large-scale simulation datasets like Gibson and MP3D. Its effectiveness is further validated via the image-goal navigation performance on the resulting topological map. We further show its strong zero-shot sim2real generalization capability in real-world experiments. The source code is available at \url{https://ai4ce.github.io/DeepExplorer/}.
Unsupervised Facial Expression Representation Learning with Contrastive Local Warping
This paper investigates unsupervised representation learning for facial expression analysis. We think Unsupervised Facial Expression Representation (UFER) deserves exploration and has the potential to address some key challenges in facial expression analysis, such as scaling, annotation bias, the discrepancy between discrete labels and continuous emotions, and model pre-training. Such motivated, we propose a UFER method with contrastive local warping (ContraWarping), which leverages the insight that the emotional expression is robust to current global transformation (affine transformation, color jitter, etc.) but can be easily changed by random local warping. Therefore, given a facial image, ContraWarping employs some global transformations and local warping to generate its positive and negative samples and sets up a novel contrastive learning framework. Our in-depth investigation shows that: 1) the positive pairs from global transformations may be exploited with general self-supervised learning (e.g., BYOL) and already bring some informative features, and 2) the negative pairs from local warping explicitly introduce expression-related variation and further bring substantial improvement. Based on ContraWarping, we demonstrate the benefit of UFER under two facial expression analysis scenarios: facial expression recognition and image retrieval. For example, directly using ContraWarping features for linear probing achieves 79.14% accuracy on RAF-DB, significantly reducing the gap towards the full-supervised counterpart (88.92% / 84.81% with/without pre-training).
A Triplet-loss Dilated Residual Network for High-Resolution Representation Learning in Image Retrieval
Content-based image retrieval is the process of retrieving a subset of images from an extensive image gallery based on visual contents, such as color, shape or spatial relations, and texture. In some applications, such as localization, image retrieval is employed as the initial step. In such cases, the accuracy of the top-retrieved images significantly affects the overall system accuracy. The current paper introduces a simple yet efficient image retrieval system with a fewer trainable parameters, which offers acceptable accuracy in top-retrieved images. The proposed method benefits from a dilated residual convolutional neural network with triplet loss. Experimental evaluations show that this model can extract richer information (i.e., high-resolution representations) by enlarging the receptive field, thus improving image retrieval accuracy without increasing the depth or complexity of the model. To enhance the extracted representations' robustness, the current research obtains candidate regions of interest from each feature map and applies Generalized-Mean pooling to the regions. As the choice of triplets in a triplet-based network affects the model training, we employ a triplet online mining method. We test the performance of the proposed method under various configurations on two of the challenging image-retrieval datasets, namely Revisited Paris6k (RPar) and UKBench. The experimental results show an accuracy of 94.54 and 80.23 (mean precision at rank 10) in the RPar medium and hard modes and 3.86 (recall at rank 4) in the UKBench dataset, respectively.
Data-Free Sketch-Based Image Retrieval
Rising concerns about privacy and anonymity preservation of deep learning models have facilitated research in data-free learning (DFL). For the first time, we identify that for data-scarce tasks like Sketch-Based Image Retrieval (SBIR), where the difficulty in acquiring paired photos and hand-drawn sketches limits data-dependent cross-modal learning algorithms, DFL can prove to be a much more practical paradigm. We thus propose Data-Free (DF)-SBIR, where, unlike existing DFL problems, pre-trained, single-modality classification models have to be leveraged to learn a cross-modal metric-space for retrieval without access to any training data. The widespread availability of pre-trained classification models, along with the difficulty in acquiring paired photo-sketch datasets for SBIR justify the practicality of this setting. We present a methodology for DF-SBIR, which can leverage knowledge from models independently trained to perform classification on photos and sketches. We evaluate our model on the Sketchy, TU-Berlin, and QuickDraw benchmarks, designing a variety of baselines based on state-of-the-art DFL literature, and observe that our method surpasses all of them by significant margins. Our method also achieves mAPs competitive with data-dependent approaches, all the while requiring no training data. Implementation is available at \url{https://github.com/abhrac/data-free-sbir}.
PATS: Patch Area Transportation with Subdivision for Local Feature Matching
Local feature matching aims at establishing sparse correspondences between a pair of images. Recently, detector-free methods present generally better performance but are not satisfactory in image pairs with large scale differences. In this paper, we propose Patch Area Transportation with Subdivision (PATS) to tackle this issue. Instead of building an expensive image pyramid, we start by splitting the original image pair into equal-sized patches and gradually resizing and subdividing them into smaller patches with the same scale. However, estimating scale differences between these patches is non-trivial since the scale differences are determined by both relative camera poses and scene structures, and thus spatially varying over image pairs. Moreover, it is hard to obtain the ground truth for real scenes. To this end, we propose patch area transportation, which enables learning scale differences in a self-supervised manner. In contrast to bipartite graph matching, which only handles one-to-one matching, our patch area transportation can deal with many-to-many relationships. PATS improves both matching accuracy and coverage, and shows superior performance in downstream tasks, such as relative pose estimation, visual localization, and optical flow estimation. The source code is available at \url{https://zju3dv.github.io/pats/}.
Robotic Applications of Pre-Trained Vision-Language Models to Various Recognition Behaviors
In recent years, a number of models that learn the relations between vision and language from large datasets have been released. These models perform a variety of tasks, such as answering questions about images, retrieving sentences that best correspond to images, and finding regions in images that correspond to phrases. Although there are some examples, the connection between these pre-trained vision-language models and robotics is still weak. If they are directly connected to robot motions, they lose their versatility due to the embodiment of the robot and the difficulty of data collection, and become inapplicable to a wide range of bodies and situations. Therefore, in this study, we categorize and summarize the methods to utilize the pre-trained vision-language models flexibly and easily in a way that the robot can understand, without directly connecting them to robot motions. We discuss how to use these models for robot motion selection and motion planning without re-training the models. We consider five types of methods to extract information understandable for robots, and show the results of state recognition, object recognition, affordance recognition, relation recognition, and anomaly detection based on the combination of these five methods. We expect that this study will add flexibility and ease-of-use, as well as new applications, to the recognition behavior of existing robots.
Dominating Set Database Selection for Visual Place Recognition
This paper presents an approach for creating a visual place recognition (VPR) database for localization in indoor environments from RGBD scanning sequences. The proposed approach is formulated as a minimization problem in terms of dominating set algorithm for graph, constructed from spatial information, and referred as DominatingSet. Our algorithm shows better scene coverage in comparison to other methodologies that are used for database creation. Also, we demonstrate that using DominatingSet, a database size could be up to 250-1400 times smaller than the original scanning sequence while maintaining a recall rate of more than 80% on testing sequences. We evaluated our algorithm on 7-scenes and BundleFusion datasets and an additionally recorded sequence in a highly repetitive office setting. In addition, the database selection can produce weakly-supervised labels for fine-tuning neural place recognition algorithms to particular settings, improving even more their accuracy. The paper also presents a fully automated pipeline for VPR database creation from RGBD scanning sequences, as well as a set of metrics for VPR database evaluation. The code and released data are available on our web-page~ -- https://prime-slam.github.io/place-recognition-db/
Graph Neural Networks in Vision-Language Image Understanding: A Survey
2D image understanding is a complex problem within Computer Vision, but it holds the key to providing human level scene comprehension. It goes further than identifying the objects in an image, and instead it attempts to understand the scene. Solutions to this problem form the underpinning of a range of tasks, including image captioning, Visual Question Answering (VQA), and image retrieval. Graphs provide a natural way to represent the relational arrangement between objects in an image, and thus in recent years Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) have become a standard component of many 2D image understanding pipelines, becoming a core architectural component especially in the VQA group of tasks. In this survey, we review this rapidly evolving field and we provide a taxonomy of graph types used in 2D image understanding approaches, a comprehensive list of the GNN models used in this domain, and a roadmap of future potential developments. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first comprehensive survey that covers image captioning, visual question answering, and image retrieval techniques that focus on using GNNs as the main part of their architecture.
Sketch-based Medical Image Retrieval
The amount of medical images stored in hospitals is increasing faster than ever; however, utilizing the accumulated medical images has been limited. This is because existing content-based medical image retrieval (CBMIR) systems usually require example images to construct query vectors; nevertheless, example images cannot always be prepared. Besides, there can be images with rare characteristics that make it difficult to find similar example images, which we call isolated samples. Here, we introduce a novel sketch-based medical image retrieval (SBMIR) system that enables users to find images of interest without example images. The key idea lies in feature decomposition of medical images, whereby the entire feature of a medical image can be decomposed into and reconstructed from normal and abnormal features. By extending this idea, our SBMIR system provides an easy-to-use two-step graphical user interface: users first select a template image to specify a normal feature and then draw a semantic sketch of the disease on the template image to represent an abnormal feature. Subsequently, it integrates the two kinds of input to construct a query vector and retrieves reference images with the closest reference vectors. Using two datasets, ten healthcare professionals with various clinical backgrounds participated in the user test for evaluation. As a result, our SBMIR system enabled users to overcome previous challenges, including image retrieval based on fine-grained image characteristics, image retrieval without example images, and image retrieval for isolated samples. Our SBMIR system achieves flexible medical image retrieval on demand, thereby expanding the utility of medical image databases.
Visual Place Recognition: A Tutorial
Localization is an essential capability for mobile robots. A rapidly growing field of research in this area is Visual Place Recognition (VPR), which is the ability to recognize previously seen places in the world based solely on images. This present work is the first tutorial paper on visual place recognition. It unifies the terminology of VPR and complements prior research in two important directions: 1) It provides a systematic introduction for newcomers to the field, covering topics such as the formulation of the VPR problem, a general-purpose algorithmic pipeline, an evaluation methodology for VPR approaches, and the major challenges for VPR and how they may be addressed. 2) As a contribution for researchers acquainted with the VPR problem, it examines the intricacies of different VPR problem types regarding input, data processing, and output. The tutorial also discusses the subtleties behind the evaluation of VPR algorithms, e.g., the evaluation of a VPR system that has to find all matching database images per query, as opposed to just a single match. Practical code examples in Python illustrate to prospective practitioners and researchers how VPR is implemented and evaluated.
MABNet: Master Assistant Buddy Network with Hybrid Learning for Image Retrieval
Image retrieval has garnered growing interest in recent times. The current approaches are either supervised or self-supervised. These methods do not exploit the benefits of hybrid learning using both supervision and self-supervision. We present a novel Master Assistant Buddy Network (MABNet) for image retrieval which incorporates both learning mechanisms. MABNet consists of master and assistant blocks, both learning independently through supervision and collectively via self-supervision. The master guides the assistant by providing its knowledge base as a reference for self-supervision and the assistant reports its knowledge back to the master by weight transfer. We perform extensive experiments on public datasets with and without post-processing.
Improving Transformer-based Image Matching by Cascaded Capturing Spatially Informative Keypoints
Learning robust local image feature matching is a fundamental low-level vision task, which has been widely explored in the past few years. Recently, detector-free local feature matchers based on transformers have shown promising results, which largely outperform pure Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) based ones. But correlations produced by transformer-based methods are spatially limited to the center of source views' coarse patches, because of the costly attention learning. In this work, we rethink this issue and find that such matching formulation degrades pose estimation, especially for low-resolution images. So we propose a transformer-based cascade matching model -- Cascade feature Matching TRansformer (CasMTR), to efficiently learn dense feature correlations, which allows us to choose more reliable matching pairs for the relative pose estimation. Instead of re-training a new detector, we use a simple yet effective Non-Maximum Suppression (NMS) post-process to filter keypoints through the confidence map, and largely improve the matching precision. CasMTR achieves state-of-the-art performance in indoor and outdoor pose estimation as well as visual localization. Moreover, thorough ablations show the efficacy of the proposed components and techniques.
Composing Mood Board with User Feedback in Concept Space
We propose the Mood Board Composer (MBC), which supports concept designers in retrieving and composing images on a 2-D concept space to communicate design concepts. The MBC allows users to iterate adaptive image retrievals intuitively. Our new contribution to the mood board tool is to adapt the query vector for the next iteration according to the user's rearrangement of images on the 2-D space. The algorithm emphasizes the meaning of the labels on the x- and y-axes by calculating the mean vector of the images on the mood board multiplied by the weights assigned to each cell of the 3 x 3 grid. The next image search is performed by obtaining the most similar words from the mean vector thus obtained and using them as a new query. In addition to the algorithm described above, we conducted the participant experiment with two other interaction algorithms to compare. The first allows users to delete unwanted images and go on to the next searches. The second utilizes the semantic labels on each image, on which users can provide negative feedback for query modification for the next searches. Although we did not observe significant differences among the three proposed algorithms, our experiment with 420 cases of mood board creation confirmed the effectiveness of adaptive iterations by the Creativity Support Index (CSI) score.
FAME-ViL: Multi-Tasking Vision-Language Model for Heterogeneous Fashion Tasks
In the fashion domain, there exists a variety of vision-and-language (V+L) tasks, including cross-modal retrieval, text-guided image retrieval, multi-modal classification, and image captioning. They differ drastically in each individual input/output format and dataset size. It has been common to design a task-specific model and fine-tune it independently from a pre-trained V+L model (e.g., CLIP). This results in parameter inefficiency and inability to exploit inter-task relatedness. To address such issues, we propose a novel FAshion-focused Multi-task Efficient learning method for Vision-and-Language tasks (FAME-ViL) in this work. Compared with existing approaches, FAME-ViL applies a single model for multiple heterogeneous fashion tasks, therefore being much more parameter-efficient. It is enabled by two novel components: (1) a task-versatile architecture with cross-attention adapters and task-specific adapters integrated into a unified V+L model, and (2) a stable and effective multi-task training strategy that supports learning from heterogeneous data and prevents negative transfer. Extensive experiments on four fashion tasks show that our FAME-ViL can save 61.5% of parameters over alternatives, while significantly outperforming the conventional independently trained single-task models. Code is available at https://github.com/BrandonHanx/FAME-ViL.
Self-Supervised Learning for Place Representation Generalization across Appearance Changes
Visual place recognition is a key to unlocking spatial navigation for animals, humans and robots. While state-of-the-art approaches are trained in a supervised manner and therefore hardly capture the information needed for generalizing to unusual conditions, we argue that self-supervised learning may help abstracting the place representation so that it can be foreseen, irrespective of the conditions. More precisely, in this paper, we investigate learning features that are robust to appearance modifications while sensitive to geometric transformations in a self-supervised manner. This dual-purpose training is made possible by combining the two self-supervision main paradigms, \textit{i.e.} contrastive and predictive learning. Our results on standard benchmarks reveal that jointly learning such appearance-robust and geometry-sensitive image descriptors leads to competitive visual place recognition results across adverse seasonal and illumination conditions, without requiring any human-annotated labels.
MixVPR: Feature Mixing for Visual Place Recognition
Visual Place Recognition (VPR) is a crucial part of mobile robotics and autonomous driving as well as other computer vision tasks. It refers to the process of identifying a place depicted in a query image using only computer vision. At large scale, repetitive structures, weather and illumination changes pose a real challenge, as appearances can drastically change over time. Along with tackling these challenges, an efficient VPR technique must also be practical in real-world scenarios where latency matters. To address this, we introduce MixVPR, a new holistic feature aggregation technique that takes feature maps from pre-trained backbones as a set of global features. Then, it incorporates a global relationship between elements in each feature map in a cascade of feature mixing, eliminating the need for local or pyramidal aggregation as done in NetVLAD or TransVPR. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our technique through extensive experiments on multiple large-scale benchmarks. Our method outperforms all existing techniques by a large margin while having less than half the number of parameters compared to CosPlace and NetVLAD. We achieve a new all-time high recall@1 score of 94.6% on Pitts250k-test, 88.0% on MapillarySLS, and more importantly, 58.4% on Nordland. Finally, our method outperforms two-stage retrieval techniques such as Patch-NetVLAD, TransVPR and SuperGLUE all while being orders of magnitude faster. Our code and trained models are available at https://github.com/amaralibey/MixVPR.
A Complementarity-Based Switch-Fuse System for Improved Visual Place Recognition
Recently several fusion and switching based approaches have been presented to solve the problem of Visual Place Recognition. In spite of these systems demonstrating significant boost in VPR performance they each have their own set of limitations. The multi-process fusion systems usually involve employing brute force and running all available VPR techniques simultaneously while the switching method attempts to negate this practise by only selecting the best suited VPR technique for given query image. But switching does fail at times when no available suitable technique can be identified. An innovative solution would be an amalgamation of the two otherwise discrete approaches to combine their competitive advantages while negating their shortcomings. The proposed, Switch-Fuse system, is an interesting way to combine both the robustness of switching VPR techniques based on complementarity and the force of fusing the carefully selected techniques to significantly improve performance. Our system holds a structure superior to the basic fusion methods as instead of simply fusing all or any random techniques, it is structured to first select the best possible VPR techniques for fusion, according to the query image. The system combines two significant processes, switching and fusing VPR techniques, which together as a hybrid model substantially improve performance on all major VPR data sets illustrated using PR curves.
ORCHNet: A Robust Global Feature Aggregation approach for 3D LiDAR-based Place recognition in Orchards
Robust and reliable place recognition and loop closure detection in agricultural environments is still an open problem. In particular, orchards are a difficult case study due to structural similarity across the entire field. In this work, we address the place recognition problem in orchards resorting to 3D LiDAR data, which is considered a key modality for robustness. Hence, we propose ORCHNet, a deep-learning-based approach that maps 3D-LiDAR scans to global descriptors. Specifically, this work proposes a new global feature aggregation approach, which fuses multiple aggregation methods into a robust global descriptor. ORCHNet is evaluated on real-world data collected in orchards, comprising data from the summer and autumn seasons. To assess the robustness, We compare ORCHNet with state-of-the-art aggregation approaches on data from the same season and across seasons. Moreover, we additionally evaluate the proposed approach as part of a localization framework, where ORCHNet is used as a loop closure detector. The empirical results indicate that, on the place recognition task, ORCHNet outperforms the remaining approaches, and is also more robust across seasons. As for the localization, the edge cases where the path goes through the trees are solved when integrating ORCHNet as a loop detector, showing the potential applicability of the proposed approach in this task. The code and dataset will be publicly available at:\url{https://github.com/Cybonic/ORCHNet.git}
Renderable Neural Radiance Map for Visual Navigation
We propose a novel type of map for visual navigation, a renderable neural radiance map (RNR-Map), which is designed to contain the overall visual information of a 3D environment. The RNR-Map has a grid form and consists of latent codes at each pixel. These latent codes are embedded from image observations, and can be converted to the neural radiance field which enables image rendering given a camera pose. The recorded latent codes implicitly contain visual information about the environment, which makes the RNR-Map visually descriptive. This visual information in RNR-Map can be a useful guideline for visual localization and navigation. We develop localization and navigation frameworks that can effectively utilize the RNR-Map. We evaluate the proposed frameworks on camera tracking, visual localization, and image-goal navigation. Experimental results show that the RNR-Map-based localization framework can find the target location based on a single query image with fast speed and competitive accuracy compared to other baselines. Also, this localization framework is robust to environmental changes, and even finds the most visually similar places when a query image from a different environment is given. The proposed navigation framework outperforms the existing image-goal navigation methods in difficult scenarios, under odometry and actuation noises. The navigation framework shows 65.7% success rate in curved scenarios of the NRNS dataset, which is an improvement of 18.6% over the current state-of-the-art. Project page: https://rllab-snu.github.io/projects/RNR-Map/
Region Prediction for Efficient Robot Localization on Large Maps
Recognizing already explored places (a.k.a. place recognition) is a fundamental task in Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) to enable robot relocalization and loop closure detection. In topological SLAM the recognition takes place by comparing a signature (or feature vector) associated to the current node with the signatures of the nodes in the known map. However, as the number of nodes increases, matching the current node signature against all the existing ones becomes inefficient and thwarts real-time navigation. In this paper we propose a novel approach to pre-select a subset of map nodes for place recognition. The map nodes are clustered during exploration and each cluster is associated with a region. The region labels become the prediction targets of a deep neural network and, during navigation, only the nodes associated with the regions predicted with high probability are considered for matching. While the proposed technique can be integrated in different SLAM approaches, in this work we describe an effective integration with RTAB-Map (a popular framework for real-time topological SLAM) which allowed us to design and run several experiments to demonstrate its effectiveness. All the code and material from the experiments will be available online at https://github.com/MI-BioLab/region-learner.
OEKG: The Open Event Knowledge Graph
Accessing and understanding contemporary and historical events of global impact such as the US elections and the Olympic Games is a major prerequisite for cross-lingual event analytics that investigate event causes, perception and consequences across country borders. In this paper, we present the Open Event Knowledge Graph (OEKG), a multilingual, event-centric, temporal knowledge graph composed of seven different data sets from multiple application domains, including question answering, entity recommendation and named entity recognition. These data sets are all integrated through an easy-to-use and robust pipeline and by linking to the event-centric knowledge graph EventKG. We describe their common schema and demonstrate the use of the OEKG at the example of three use cases: type-specific image retrieval, hybrid question answering over knowledge graphs and news articles, as well as language-specific event recommendation. The OEKG and its query endpoint are publicly available.
Global Proxy-based Hard Mining for Visual Place Recognition
Learning deep representations for visual place recognition is commonly performed using pairwise or triple loss functions that highly depend on the hardness of the examples sampled at each training iteration. Existing techniques address this by using computationally and memory expensive offline hard mining, which consists of identifying, at each iteration, the hardest samples from the training set. In this paper we introduce a new technique that performs global hard mini-batch sampling based on proxies. To do so, we add a new end-to-end trainable branch to the network, which generates efficient place descriptors (one proxy for each place). These proxy representations are thus used to construct a global index that encompasses the similarities between all places in the dataset, allowing for highly informative mini-batch sampling at each training iteration. Our method can be used in combination with all existing pairwise and triplet loss functions with negligible additional memory and computation cost. We run extensive ablation studies and show that our technique brings new state-of-the-art performance on multiple large-scale benchmarks such as Pittsburgh, Mapillary-SLS and SPED. In particular, our method provides more than 100% relative improvement on the challenging Nordland dataset. Our code is available at https://github.com/amaralibey/GPM
Efficient Informed Proposals for Discrete Distributions via Newton's Series Approximation
Gradients have been exploited in proposal distributions to accelerate the convergence of Markov chain Monte Carlo algorithms on discrete distributions. However, these methods require a natural differentiable extension of the target discrete distribution, which often does not exist or does not provide effective gradient guidance. In this paper, we develop a gradient-like proposal for any discrete distribution without this strong requirement. Built upon a locally-balanced proposal, our method efficiently approximates the discrete likelihood ratio via Newton's series expansion to enable a large and efficient exploration in discrete spaces. We show that our method can also be viewed as a multilinear extension, thus inheriting its desired properties. We prove that our method has a guaranteed convergence rate with or without the Metropolis-Hastings step. Furthermore, our method outperforms a number of popular alternatives in several different experiments, including the facility location problem, extractive text summarization, and image retrieval.
Data-Efficient Sequence-Based Visual Place Recognition with Highly Compressed JPEG Images
Visual Place Recognition (VPR) is a fundamental task that allows a robotic platform to successfully localise itself in the environment. For decentralised VPR applications where the visual data has to be transmitted between several agents, the communication channel may restrict the localisation process when limited bandwidth is available. JPEG is an image compression standard that can employ high compression ratios to facilitate lower data transmission for VPR applications. However, when applying high levels of JPEG compression, both the image clarity and size are drastically reduced. In this paper, we incorporate sequence-based filtering in a number of well-established, learnt and non-learnt VPR techniques to overcome the performance loss resulted from introducing high levels of JPEG compression. The sequence length that enables 100% place matching performance is reported and an analysis of the amount of data required for each VPR technique to perform the transfer on the entire spectrum of JPEG compression is provided. Moreover, the time required by each VPR technique to perform place matching is investigated, on both uniformly and non-uniformly JPEG compressed data. The results show that it is beneficial to use a highly compressed JPEG dataset with an increased sequence length, as similar levels of VPR performance are reported at a significantly reduced bandwidth. The results presented in this paper also emphasize that there is a trade-off between the amount of data transferred and the total time required to perform VPR. Our experiments also suggest that is often favourable to compress the query images to the same quality of the map, as more efficient place matching can be performed. The experiments are conducted on several VPR datasets, under mild to extreme JPEG compression.
Learning cross space mapping via DNN using large scale click-through logs
The gap between low-level visual signals and high-level semantics has been progressively bridged by continuous development of deep neural network (DNN). With recent progress of DNN, almost all image classification tasks have achieved new records of accuracy. To extend the ability of DNN to image retrieval tasks, we proposed a unified DNN model for image-query similarity calculation by simultaneously modeling image and query in one network. The unified DNN is named the cross space mapping (CSM) model, which contains two parts, a convolutional part and a query-embedding part. The image and query are mapped to a common vector space via these two parts respectively, and image-query similarity is naturally defined as an inner product of their mappings in the space. To ensure good generalization ability of the DNN, we learn weights of the DNN from a large number of click-through logs which consists of 23 million clicked image-query pairs between 1 million images and 11.7 million queries. Both the qualitative results and quantitative results on an image retrieval evaluation task with 1000 queries demonstrate the superiority of the proposed method.
DeepBrainPrint: A Novel Contrastive Framework for Brain MRI Re-Identification
Recent advances in MRI have led to the creation of large datasets. With the increase in data volume, it has become difficult to locate previous scans of the same patient within these datasets (a process known as re-identification). To address this issue, we propose an AI-powered medical imaging retrieval framework called DeepBrainPrint, which is designed to retrieve brain MRI scans of the same patient. Our framework is a semi-self-supervised contrastive deep learning approach with three main innovations. First, we use a combination of self-supervised and supervised paradigms to create an effective brain fingerprint from MRI scans that can be used for real-time image retrieval. Second, we use a special weighting function to guide the training and improve model convergence. Third, we introduce new imaging transformations to improve retrieval robustness in the presence of intensity variations (i.e. different scan contrasts), and to account for age and disease progression in patients. We tested DeepBrainPrint on a large dataset of T1-weighted brain MRIs from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) and on a synthetic dataset designed to evaluate retrieval performance with different image modalities. Our results show that DeepBrainPrint outperforms previous methods, including simple similarity metrics and more advanced contrastive deep learning frameworks.
Teaching CLIP to Count to Ten
Large vision-language models (VLMs), such as CLIP, learn rich joint image-text representations, facilitating advances in numerous downstream tasks, including zero-shot classification and text-to-image generation. Nevertheless, existing VLMs exhibit a prominent well-documented limitation - they fail to encapsulate compositional concepts such as counting. We introduce a simple yet effective method to improve the quantitative understanding of VLMs, while maintaining their overall performance on common benchmarks. Specifically, we propose a new counting-contrastive loss used to finetune a pre-trained VLM in tandem with its original objective. Our counting loss is deployed over automatically-created counterfactual examples, each consisting of an image and a caption containing an incorrect object count. For example, an image depicting three dogs is paired with the caption "Six dogs playing in the yard". Our loss encourages discrimination between the correct caption and its counterfactual variant which serves as a hard negative example. To the best of our knowledge, this work is the first to extend CLIP's capabilities to object counting. Furthermore, we introduce "CountBench" - a new image-text counting benchmark for evaluating a model's understanding of object counting. We demonstrate a significant improvement over state-of-the-art baseline models on this task. Finally, we leverage our count-aware CLIP model for image retrieval and text-conditioned image generation, demonstrating that our model can produce specific counts of objects more reliably than existing ones.
Steerable Equivariant Representation Learning
Pre-trained deep image representations are useful for post-training tasks such as classification through transfer learning, image retrieval, and object detection. Data augmentations are a crucial aspect of pre-training robust representations in both supervised and self-supervised settings. Data augmentations explicitly or implicitly promote invariance in the embedding space to the input image transformations. This invariance reduces generalization to those downstream tasks which rely on sensitivity to these particular data augmentations. In this paper, we propose a method of learning representations that are instead equivariant to data augmentations. We achieve this equivariance through the use of steerable representations. Our representations can be manipulated directly in embedding space via learned linear maps. We demonstrate that our resulting steerable and equivariant representations lead to better performance on transfer learning and robustness: e.g. we improve linear probe top-1 accuracy by between 1% to 3% for transfer; and ImageNet-C accuracy by upto 3.4%. We further show that the steerability of our representations provides significant speedup (nearly 50x) for test-time augmentations; by applying a large number of augmentations for out-of-distribution detection, we significantly improve OOD AUC on the ImageNet-C dataset over an invariant representation.
iQPP: A Benchmark for Image Query Performance Prediction
To date, query performance prediction (QPP) in the context of content-based image retrieval remains a largely unexplored task, especially in the query-by-example scenario, where the query is an image. To boost the exploration of the QPP task in image retrieval, we propose the first benchmark for image query performance prediction (iQPP). First, we establish a set of four data sets (PASCAL VOC 2012, Caltech-101, ROxford5k and RParis6k) and estimate the ground-truth difficulty of each query as the average precision or the precision@k, using two state-of-the-art image retrieval models. Next, we propose and evaluate novel pre-retrieval and post-retrieval query performance predictors, comparing them with existing or adapted (from text to image) predictors. The empirical results show that most predictors do not generalize across evaluation scenarios. Our comprehensive experiments indicate that iQPP is a challenging benchmark, revealing an important research gap that needs to be addressed in future work. We release our code and data as open source at https://github.com/Eduard6421/iQPP, to foster future research.
Ontology-aware Network for Zero-shot Sketch-based Image Retrieval
Zero-Shot Sketch-Based Image Retrieval (ZSSBIR) is an emerging task. The pioneering work focused on the modal gap but ignored inter-class information. Although recent work has begun to consider the triplet-based or contrast-based loss to mine inter-class information, positive and negative samples need to be carefully selected, or the model is prone to lose modality-specific information. To respond to these issues, an Ontology-Aware Network (OAN) is proposed. Specifically, the smooth inter-class independence learning mechanism is put forward to maintain inter-class peculiarity. Meanwhile, distillation-based consistency preservation is utilized to keep modality-specific information. Extensive experiments have demonstrated the superior performance of our algorithm on two challenging Sketchy and Tu-Berlin datasets.
TBPos: Dataset for Large-Scale Precision Visual Localization
Image based localization is a classical computer vision challenge, with several well-known datasets. Generally, datasets consist of a visual 3D database that captures the modeled scenery, as well as query images whose 3D pose is to be discovered. Usually the query images have been acquired with a camera that differs from the imaging hardware used to collect the 3D database; consequently, it is hard to acquire accurate ground truth poses between query images and the 3D database. As the accuracy of visual localization algorithms constantly improves, precise ground truth becomes increasingly important. This paper proposes TBPos, a novel large-scale visual dataset for image based positioning, which provides query images with fully accurate ground truth poses: both the database images and the query images have been derived from the same laser scanner data. In the experimental part of the paper, the proposed dataset is evaluated by means of an image-based localization pipeline.
Towards Unifying Medical Vision-and-Language Pre-training via Soft Prompts
Medical vision-and-language pre-training (Med-VLP) has shown promising improvements on many downstream medical tasks owing to its applicability to extracting generic representations from medical images and texts. Practically, there exist two typical types, \textit{i.e.}, the fusion-encoder type and the dual-encoder type, depending on whether a heavy fusion module is used. The former is superior at multi-modal tasks owing to the sufficient interaction between modalities; the latter is good at uni-modal and cross-modal tasks due to the single-modality encoding ability. To take advantage of these two types, we propose an effective yet straightforward scheme named PTUnifier to unify the two types. We first unify the input format by introducing visual and textual prompts, which serve as a feature bank that stores the most representative images/texts. By doing so, a single model could serve as a \textit{foundation model} that processes various tasks adopting different input formats (\textit{i.e.}, image-only, text-only, and image-text-pair). Furthermore, we construct a prompt pool (instead of static ones) to improve diversity and scalability. Experimental results show that our approach achieves state-of-the-art results on a broad range of tasks, spanning uni-modal tasks (\textit{i.e.}, image/text classification and text summarization), cross-modal tasks (\textit{i.e.}, image-to-text generation and image-text/text-image retrieval), and multi-modal tasks (\textit{i.e.}, visual question answering), demonstrating the effectiveness of our approach. Note that the adoption of prompts is orthogonal to most existing Med-VLP approaches and could be a beneficial and complementary extension to these approaches.
Fashion Image Retrieval with Multi-Granular Alignment
Fashion image retrieval task aims to search relevant clothing items of a query image from the gallery. The previous recipes focus on designing different distance-based loss functions, pulling relevant pairs to be close and pushing irrelevant images apart. However, these methods ignore fine-grained features (e.g. neckband, cuff) of clothing images. In this paper, we propose a novel fashion image retrieval method leveraging both global and fine-grained features, dubbed Multi-Granular Alignment (MGA). Specifically, we design a Fine-Granular Aggregator(FGA) to capture and aggregate detailed patterns. Then we propose Attention-based Token Alignment (ATA) to align image features at the multi-granular level in a coarse-to-fine manner. To prove the effectiveness of our proposed method, we conduct experiments on two sub-tasks (In-Shop & Consumer2Shop) of the public fashion datasets DeepFashion. The experimental results show that our MGA outperforms the state-of-the-art methods by 1.8% and 0.6% in the two sub-tasks on the R@1 metric, respectively.
Unsupervised Hashing via Similarity Distribution Calibration
Existing unsupervised hashing methods typically adopt a feature similarity preservation paradigm. As a result, they overlook the intrinsic similarity capacity discrepancy between the continuous feature and discrete hash code spaces. Specifically, since the feature similarity distribution is intrinsically biased (e.g., moderately positive similarity scores on negative pairs), the hash code similarities of positive and negative pairs often become inseparable (i.e., the similarity collapse problem). To solve this problem, in this paper a novel Similarity Distribution Calibration (SDC) method is introduced. Instead of matching individual pairwise similarity scores, SDC aligns the hash code similarity distribution towards a calibration distribution (e.g., beta distribution) with sufficient spread across the entire similarity capacity/range, to alleviate the similarity collapse problem. Extensive experiments show that our SDC outperforms the state-of-the-art alternatives on both coarse category-level and instance-level image retrieval tasks, often by a large margin. Code is available at https://github.com/kamwoh/sdc.
Render-and-Compare: Cross-View 6 DoF Localization from Noisy Prior
Despite the significant progress in 6-DoF visual localization, researchers are mostly driven by ground-level benchmarks. Compared with aerial oblique photography, ground-level map collection lacks scalability and complete coverage. In this work, we propose to go beyond the traditional ground-level setting and exploit the cross-view localization from aerial to ground. We solve this problem by formulating camera pose estimation as an iterative render-and-compare pipeline and enhancing the robustness through augmenting seeds from noisy initial priors. As no public dataset exists for the studied problem, we collect a new dataset that provides a variety of cross-view images from smartphones and drones and develop a semi-automatic system to acquire ground-truth poses for query images. We benchmark our method as well as several state-of-the-art baselines and demonstrate that our method outperforms other approaches by a large margin.
Contour Context: Abstract Structural Distribution for 3D LiDAR Loop Detection and Metric Pose Estimation
This paper proposes \textit{Contour Context}, a simple, effective, and efficient topological loop closure detection pipeline with accurate 3-DoF metric pose estimation, targeting the urban utonomous driving scenario. We interpret the Cartesian birds' eye view (BEV) image projected from 3D LiDAR points as layered distribution of structures. To recover elevation information from BEVs, we slice them at different heights, and connected pixels at each level will form contours. Each contour is parameterized by abstract information, e.g., pixel count, center position, covariance, and mean height. The similarity of two BEVs is calculated in sequential discrete and continuous steps. The first step considers the geometric consensus of graph-like constellations formed by contours in particular localities. The second step models the majority of contours as a 2.5D Gaussian mixture model, which is used to calculate correlation and optimize relative transform in continuous space. A retrieval key is designed to accelerate the search of a database indexed by layered KD-trees. We validate the efficacy of our method by comparing it with recent works on public datasets.
Correspondence-Free Domain Alignment for Unsupervised Cross-Domain Image Retrieval
Cross-domain image retrieval aims at retrieving images across different domains to excavate cross-domain classificatory or correspondence relationships. This paper studies a less-touched problem of cross-domain image retrieval, i.e., unsupervised cross-domain image retrieval, considering the following practical assumptions: (i) no correspondence relationship, and (ii) no category annotations. It is challenging to align and bridge distinct domains without cross-domain correspondence. To tackle the challenge, we present a novel Correspondence-free Domain Alignment (CoDA) method to effectively eliminate the cross-domain gap through In-domain Self-matching Supervision (ISS) and Cross-domain Classifier Alignment (CCA). To be specific, ISS is presented to encapsulate discriminative information into the latent common space by elaborating a novel self-matching supervision mechanism. To alleviate the cross-domain discrepancy, CCA is proposed to align distinct domain-specific classifiers. Thanks to the ISS and CCA, our method could encode the discrimination into the domain-invariant embedding space for unsupervised cross-domain image retrieval. To verify the effectiveness of the proposed method, extensive experiments are conducted on four benchmark datasets compared with six state-of-the-art methods.
Sketch Less Face Image Retrieval: A New Challenge
In some specific scenarios, face sketch was used to identify a person. However, drawing a complete face sketch often needs skills and takes time, which hinder its widespread applicability in the practice. In this study, we proposed a new task named sketch less face image retrieval (SLFIR), in which the retrieval was carried out at each stroke and aim to retrieve the target face photo using a partial sketch with as few strokes as possible (see Fig.1). Firstly, we developed a method to generate the data of sketch with drawing process, and opened such dataset; Secondly, we proposed a two-stage method as the baseline for SLFIR that (1) A triplet network, was first adopt to learn the joint embedding space shared between the complete sketch and its target face photo; (2) Regarding the sketch drawing episode as a sequence, we designed a LSTM module to optimize the representation of the incomplete face sketch. Experiments indicate that the new framework can finish the retrieval using a partial or pool drawing sketch.
Is Multimodal Vision Supervision Beneficial to Language?
Vision (image and video) - Language (VL) pre-training is the recent popular paradigm that achieved state-of-the-art results on multi-modal tasks like image-retrieval, video-retrieval, visual question answering etc. These models are trained in an unsupervised way and greatly benefit from the complementary modality supervision. In this paper, we explore if the language representations trained using vision supervision perform better than vanilla language representations on Natural Language Understanding and commonsense reasoning benchmarks. We experiment with a diverse set of image-text models such as ALBEF, BLIP, METER and video-text models like ALPRO, Frozen-in-Time (FiT), VIOLET. We compare the performance of language representations of stand-alone text encoders of these models to the language representations of text encoders learnt through vision supervision. Our experiments suggest that vanilla language representations show superior performance on most of the tasks. These results shed light on the current drawbacks of the vision-language models.
Pic2Word: Mapping Pictures to Words for Zero-shot Composed Image Retrieval
In Composed Image Retrieval (CIR), a user combines a query image with text to describe their intended target. Existing methods rely on supervised learning of CIR models using labeled triplets consisting of the query image, text specification, and the target image. Labeling such triplets is expensive and hinders broad applicability of CIR. In this work, we propose to study an important task, Zero-Shot Composed Image Retrieval (ZS-CIR), whose goal is to build a CIR model without requiring labeled triplets for training. To this end, we propose a novel method, called Pic2Word, that requires only weakly labeled image-caption pairs and unlabeled image datasets to train. Unlike existing supervised CIR models, our model trained on weakly labeled or unlabeled datasets shows strong generalization across diverse ZS-CIR tasks, e.g., attribute editing, object composition, and domain conversion. Our approach outperforms several supervised CIR methods on the common CIR benchmark, CIRR and Fashion-IQ. Code will be made publicly available at https://github.com/google-research/composed_image_retrieval.
Probabilistic Contrastive Learning Recovers the Correct Aleatoric Uncertainty of Ambiguous Inputs
Contrastively trained encoders have recently been proven to invert the data-generating process: they encode each input, e.g., an image, into the true latent vector that generated the image (Zimmermann et al., 2021). However, real-world observations often have inherent ambiguities. For instance, images may be blurred or only show a 2D view of a 3D object, so multiple latents could have generated them. This makes the true posterior for the latent vector probabilistic with heteroscedastic uncertainty. In this setup, we extend the common InfoNCE objective and encoders to predict latent distributions instead of points. We prove that these distributions recover the correct posteriors of the data-generating process, including its level of aleatoric uncertainty, up to a rotation of the latent space. In addition to providing calibrated uncertainty estimates, these posteriors allow the computation of credible intervals in image retrieval. They comprise images with the same latent as a given query, subject to its uncertainty. Code is available at https://github.com/mkirchhof/Probabilistic_Contrastive_Learning
Simple, Effective and General: A New Backbone for Cross-view Image Geo-localization
In this work, we aim at an important but less explored problem of a simple yet effective backbone specific for cross-view geo-localization task. Existing methods for cross-view geo-localization tasks are frequently characterized by 1) complicated methodologies, 2) GPU-consuming computations, and 3) a stringent assumption that aerial and ground images are centrally or orientation aligned. To address the above three challenges for cross-view image matching, we propose a new backbone network, named Simple Attention-based Image Geo-localization network (SAIG). The proposed SAIG effectively represents long-range interactions among patches as well as cross-view correspondence with multi-head self-attention layers. The "narrow-deep" architecture of our SAIG improves the feature richness without degradation in performance, while its shallow and effective convolutional stem preserves the locality, eliminating the loss of patchify boundary information. Our SAIG achieves state-of-the-art results on cross-view geo-localization, while being far simpler than previous works. Furthermore, with only 15.9% of the model parameters and half of the output dimension compared to the state-of-the-art, the SAIG adapts well across multiple cross-view datasets without employing any well-designed feature aggregation modules or feature alignment algorithms. In addition, our SAIG attains competitive scores on image retrieval benchmarks, further demonstrating its generalizability. As a backbone network, our SAIG is both easy to follow and computationally lightweight, which is meaningful in practical scenario. Moreover, we propose a simple Spatial-Mixed feature aggregation moDule (SMD) that can mix and project spatial information into a low-dimensional space to generate feature descriptors... (The code is available at https://github.com/yanghongji2007/SAIG)
Bayesian Metric Learning for Uncertainty Quantification in Image Retrieval
We propose the first Bayesian encoder for metric learning. Rather than relying on neural amortization as done in prior works, we learn a distribution over the network weights with the Laplace Approximation. We actualize this by first proving that the contrastive loss is a valid log-posterior. We then propose three methods that ensure a positive definite Hessian. Lastly, we present a novel decomposition of the Generalized Gauss-Newton approximation. Empirically, we show that our Laplacian Metric Learner (LAM) estimates well-calibrated uncertainties, reliably detects out-of-distribution examples, and yields state-of-the-art predictive performance.
Grounding Language Models to Images for Multimodal Inputs and Outputs
We propose an efficient method to ground pretrained text-only language models to the visual domain, enabling them to process arbitrarily interleaved image-and-text data, and generate text interleaved with retrieved images. Our method leverages the abilities of language models learnt from large scale text-only pretraining, such as in-context learning and free-form text generation. We keep the language model frozen, and finetune input and output linear layers to enable cross-modality interactions. This allows our model to process arbitrarily interleaved image-and-text inputs, and generate free-form text interleaved with retrieved images. We achieve strong zero-shot performance on grounded tasks such as contextual image retrieval and multimodal dialogue, and showcase compelling interactive abilities. Our approach works with any off-the-shelf language model and paves the way towards an effective, general solution for leveraging pretrained language models in visually grounded settings.
Lexi: Self-Supervised Learning of the UI Language
Humans can learn to operate the user interface (UI) of an application by reading an instruction manual or how-to guide. Along with text, these resources include visual content such as UI screenshots and images of application icons referenced in the text. We explore how to leverage this data to learn generic visio-linguistic representations of UI screens and their components. These representations are useful in many real applications, such as accessibility, voice navigation, and task automation. Prior UI representation models rely on UI metadata (UI trees and accessibility labels), which is often missing, incompletely defined, or not accessible. We avoid such a dependency, and propose Lexi, a pre-trained vision and language model designed to handle the unique features of UI screens, including their text richness and context sensitivity. To train Lexi we curate the UICaption dataset consisting of 114k UI images paired with descriptions of their functionality. We evaluate Lexi on four tasks: UI action entailment, instruction-based UI image retrieval, grounding referring expressions, and UI entity recognition.
Distribution Aligned Feature Clustering for Zero-Shot Sketch-Based Image Retrieval
Zero-Shot Sketch-Based Image Retrieval (ZS-SBIR) is a challenging cross-modal retrieval task. In prior arts, the retrieval is conducted by sorting the distance between the query sketch and each image in the gallery. However, the domain gap and the zero-shot setting make neural networks hard to generalize. This paper tackles the challenges from a new perspective: utilizing gallery image features. We propose a Cluster-then-Retrieve (ClusterRetri) method that performs clustering on the gallery images and uses the cluster centroids as proxies for retrieval. Furthermore, a distribution alignment loss is proposed to align the image and sketch features with a common Gaussian distribution, reducing the domain gap. Despite its simplicity, our proposed method outperforms the state-of-the-art methods by a large margin on popular datasets, e.g., up to 31% and 39% relative improvement of mAP@all on the Sketchy and TU-Berlin datasets.
High-bandwidth Close-Range Information Transport through Light Pipes
Image retrieval after propagation through multi-mode fibers is gaining attention due to their capacity to confine light and efficiently transport it over distances in a compact system. Here, we propose a generally applicable information-theoretic framework to transmit maximal-entropy (data) images and maximize the information transmission over sub-meter distances, a crucial capability that allows optical storage applications to scale and address different parts of storage media. To this end, we use millimeter-sized square optical waveguides to image a megapixel 8-bit spatial-light modulator. Data is thus represented as a 2D array of 8-bit values (symbols). Transmitting 100000s of symbols requires innovation beyond transmission matrix approaches. Deep neural networks have been recently utilized to retrieve images, but have been limited to small (thousands of symbols) and natural looking (low entropy) images. We maximize information transmission by combining a bandwidth-optimized homodyne detector with a differentiable hybrid neural-network consisting of a digital twin of the experiment setup and a U-Net. For the digital twin, we implement and compare a differentiable mode-based twin with a differentiable ray-based twin. Importantly, the latter can adapt to manufacturing-related setup imperfections during training which we show to be crucial. Our pipeline is trained end-to-end to recover digital input images while maximizing the achievable information page size based on a differentiable mutual-information estimator. We demonstrate retrieval of 66 kB at maximum with 1.7 bit per symbol on average with a range of 0.3 - 3.4 bit.
A LiDAR-Inertial-Visual SLAM System with Loop Detection
We have proposed, to the best of our knowledge, the first-of-its-kind LiDAR-Inertial-Visual-Fused simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) system with a strong place recognition capacity. Our proposed SLAM system is consist of visual-inertial odometry (VIO) and LiDAR inertial odometry (LIO) subsystems. We propose the LIO subsystem utilizing the measurement from the LiDAR and the inertial sensors to build the local odometry map, and propose the VIO subsystem which takes in the visual information to construct the 2D-3D associated map. Then, we propose an iterative Kalman Filter-based optimization function to optimize the local project-based 2D-to-3D photo-metric error between the projected image pixels and the local 3D points to make the robust 2D-3D alignment. Finally, we have also proposed the back-end pose graph global optimization and the elaborately designed loop closure detection network to improve the accuracy of the whole SLAM system. Extensive experiments deployed on the UGV in complicated real-world circumstances demonstrate that our proposed LiDAR-Visual-Inertial localization system outperforms the current state-of-the-art in terms of accuracy, efficiency, and robustness.
GH-Feat: Learning Versatile Generative Hierarchical Features from GANs
Recent years witness the tremendous success of generative adversarial networks (GANs) in synthesizing photo-realistic images. GAN generator learns to compose realistic images and reproduce the real data distribution. Through that, a hierarchical visual feature with multi-level semantics spontaneously emerges. In this work we investigate that such a generative feature learned from image synthesis exhibits great potentials in solving a wide range of computer vision tasks, including both generative ones and more importantly discriminative ones. We first train an encoder by considering the pretrained StyleGAN generator as a learned loss function. The visual features produced by our encoder, termed as Generative Hierarchical Features (GH-Feat), highly align with the layer-wise GAN representations, and hence describe the input image adequately from the reconstruction perspective. Extensive experiments support the versatile transferability of GH-Feat across a range of applications, such as image editing, image processing, image harmonization, face verification, landmark detection, layout prediction, image retrieval, etc. We further show that, through a proper spatial expansion, our developed GH-Feat can also facilitate fine-grained semantic segmentation using only a few annotations. Both qualitative and quantitative results demonstrate the appealing performance of GH-Feat.
Pix2Map: Cross-modal Retrieval for Inferring Street Maps from Images
Self-driving vehicles rely on urban street maps for autonomous navigation. In this paper, we introduce Pix2Map, a method for inferring urban street map topology directly from ego-view images, as needed to continually update and expand existing maps. This is a challenging task, as we need to infer a complex urban road topology directly from raw image data. The main insight of this paper is that this problem can be posed as cross-modal retrieval by learning a joint, cross-modal embedding space for images and existing maps, represented as discrete graphs that encode the topological layout of the visual surroundings. We conduct our experimental evaluation using the Argoverse dataset and show that it is indeed possible to accurately retrieve street maps corresponding to both seen and unseen roads solely from image data. Moreover, we show that our retrieved maps can be used to update or expand existing maps and even show proof-of-concept results for visual localization and image retrieval from spatial graphs.
Collaborative Semantic Communication for Edge Inference
We study the collaborative image retrieval problem at the wireless edge, where multiple edge devices capture images of the same object from different angles and locations, which are then used jointly to retrieve similar images at the edge server over a shared multiple access channel (MAC). We propose two novel deep learning-based joint source and channel coding (JSCC) schemes for the task over both additive white Gaussian noise (AWGN) and Rayleigh slow fading channels, with the aim of maximizing the retrieval accuracy under a total bandwidth constraint. The proposed schemes are evaluated on a wide range of channel signal-to-noise ratios (SNRs), and shown to outperform the single-device JSCC and the separation-based multiple-access benchmarks. We also propose two novel SNR-aware JSCC schemes with attention modules to improve the performance in the case of channel mismatch between training and test instances.
Online Backfilling with No Regret for Large-Scale Image Retrieval
Backfilling is the process of re-extracting all gallery embeddings from upgraded models in image retrieval systems. It inevitably requires a prohibitively large amount of computational cost and even entails the downtime of the service. Although backward-compatible learning sidesteps this challenge by tackling query-side representations, this leads to suboptimal solutions in principle because gallery embeddings cannot benefit from model upgrades. We address this dilemma by introducing an online backfilling algorithm, which enables us to achieve a progressive performance improvement during the backfilling process while not sacrificing the final performance of new model after the completion of backfilling. To this end, we first propose a simple distance rank merge technique for online backfilling. Then, we incorporate a reverse transformation module for more effective and efficient merging, which is further enhanced by adopting a metric-compatible contrastive learning approach. These two components help to make the distances of old and new models compatible, resulting in desirable merge results during backfilling with no extra computational overhead. Extensive experiments show the effectiveness of our framework on four standard benchmarks in various settings.
CyberLoc: Towards Accurate Long-term Visual Localization
This technical report introduces CyberLoc, an image-based visual localization pipeline for robust and accurate long-term pose estimation under challenging conditions. The proposed method comprises four modules connected in a sequence. First, a mapping module is applied to build accurate 3D maps of the scene, one map for each reference sequence if there exist multiple reference sequences under different conditions. Second, a single-image-based localization pipeline (retrieval--matching--PnP) is performed to estimate 6-DoF camera poses for each query image, one for each 3D map. Third, a consensus set maximization module is proposed to filter out outlier 6-DoF camera poses, and outputs one 6-DoF camera pose for a query. Finally, a robust pose refinement module is proposed to optimize 6-DoF query poses, taking candidate global 6-DoF camera poses and their corresponding global 2D-3D matches, sparse 2D-2D feature matches between consecutive query images and SLAM poses of the query sequence as input. Experiments on the 4seasons dataset show that our method achieves high accuracy and robustness. In particular, our approach wins the localization challenge of ECCV 2022 workshop on Map-based Localization for Autonomous Driving (MLAD-ECCV2022).
A Probabilistic Framework for Visual Localization in Ambiguous Scenes
Visual localization allows autonomous robots to relocalize when losing track of their pose by matching their current observation with past ones. However, ambiguous scenes pose a challenge for such systems, as repetitive structures can be viewed from many distinct, equally likely camera poses, which means it is not sufficient to produce a single best pose hypothesis. In this work, we propose a probabilistic framework that for a given image predicts the arbitrarily shaped posterior distribution of its camera pose. We do this via a novel formulation of camera pose regression using variational inference, which allows sampling from the predicted distribution. Our method outperforms existing methods on localization in ambiguous scenes. Code and data will be released at https://github.com/efreidun/vapor.
4Seasons: Benchmarking Visual SLAM and Long-Term Localization for Autonomous Driving in Challenging Conditions
In this paper, we present a novel visual SLAM and long-term localization benchmark for autonomous driving in challenging conditions based on the large-scale 4Seasons dataset. The proposed benchmark provides drastic appearance variations caused by seasonal changes and diverse weather and illumination conditions. While significant progress has been made in advancing visual SLAM on small-scale datasets with similar conditions, there is still a lack of unified benchmarks representative of real-world scenarios for autonomous driving. We introduce a new unified benchmark for jointly evaluating visual odometry, global place recognition, and map-based visual localization performance which is crucial to successfully enable autonomous driving in any condition. The data has been collected for more than one year, resulting in more than 300 km of recordings in nine different environments ranging from a multi-level parking garage to urban (including tunnels) to countryside and highway. We provide globally consistent reference poses with up to centimeter-level accuracy obtained from the fusion of direct stereo-inertial odometry with RTK GNSS. We evaluate the performance of several state-of-the-art visual odometry and visual localization baseline approaches on the benchmark and analyze their properties. The experimental results provide new insights into current approaches and show promising potential for future research. Our benchmark and evaluation protocols will be available at https://www.4seasons-dataset.com/.
HPointLoc: Point-based Indoor Place Recognition using Synthetic RGB-D Images
We present a novel dataset named as HPointLoc, specially designed for exploring capabilities of visual place recognition in indoor environment and loop detection in simultaneous localization and mapping. The loop detection sub-task is especially relevant when a robot with an on-board RGB-D camera can drive past the same place (``Point") at different angles. The dataset is based on the popular Habitat simulator, in which it is possible to generate photorealistic indoor scenes using both own sensor data and open datasets, such as Matterport3D. To study the main stages of solving the place recognition problem on the HPointLoc dataset, we proposed a new modular approach named as PNTR. It first performs an image retrieval with the Patch-NetVLAD method, then extracts keypoints and matches them using R2D2, LoFTR or SuperPoint with SuperGlue, and finally performs a camera pose optimization step with TEASER++. Such a solution to the place recognition problem has not been previously studied in existing publications. The PNTR approach has shown the best quality metrics on the HPointLoc dataset and has a high potential for real use in localization systems for unmanned vehicles. The proposed dataset and framework are publicly available: https://github.com/metra4ok/HPointLoc.
Noise-aware Learning from Web-crawled Image-Text Data for Image Captioning
Image captioning is one of the straightforward tasks that can take advantage of large-scale web-crawled data which provides rich knowledge about the visual world for a captioning model. However, since web-crawled data contains image-text pairs that are aligned at different levels, the inherent noises (e.g., misaligned pairs) make it difficult to learn a precise captioning model. While the filtering strategy can effectively remove noisy data, however, it leads to a decrease in learnable knowledge and sometimes brings about a new problem of data deficiency. To take the best of both worlds, we propose a noise-aware learning framework, which learns rich knowledge from the whole web-crawled data while being less affected by the noises. This is achieved by the proposed quality controllable model, which is learned using alignment levels of the image-text pairs as an additional control signal during training. The alignment-conditioned training allows the model to generate high-quality captions of well-aligned by simply setting the control signal to desired alignment level at inference time. Through in-depth analysis, we show that our controllable captioning model is effective in handling noise. In addition, with two tasks of zero-shot captioning and text-to-image retrieval using generated captions (i.e., self-retrieval), we also demonstrate our model can produce high-quality captions in terms of descriptiveness and distinctiveness. Code is available at \url{https://github.com/kakaobrain/noc}.
GraffMatch: Global Matching of 3D Lines and Planes for Wide Baseline LiDAR Registration
Using geometric landmarks like lines and planes can increase navigation accuracy and decrease map storage requirements compared to commonly-used LiDAR point cloud maps. However, landmark-based registration for applications like loop closure detection is challenging because a reliable initial guess is not available. Global landmark matching has been investigated in the literature, but these methods typically use ad hoc representations of 3D line and plane landmarks that are not invariant to large viewpoint changes, resulting in incorrect matches and high registration error. To address this issue, we adopt the affine Grassmannian manifold to represent 3D lines and planes and prove that the distance between two landmarks is invariant to rotation and translation if a shift operation is performed before applying the Grassmannian metric. This invariance property enables the use of our graph-based data association framework for identifying landmark matches that can subsequently be used for registration in the least-squares sense. Evaluated on a challenging landmark matching and registration task using publicly-available LiDAR datasets, our approach yields a 1.7x and 3.5x improvement in successful registrations compared to methods that use viewpoint-dependent centroid and "closest point" representations, respectively.
SuperGF: Unifying Local and Global Features for Visual Localization
Advanced visual localization techniques encompass image retrieval challenges and 6 Degree-of-Freedom (DoF) camera pose estimation, such as hierarchical localization. Thus, they must extract global and local features from input images. Previous methods have achieved this through resource-intensive or accuracy-reducing means, such as combinatorial pipelines or multi-task distillation. In this study, we present a novel method called SuperGF, which effectively unifies local and global features for visual localization, leading to a higher trade-off between localization accuracy and computational efficiency. Specifically, SuperGF is a transformer-based aggregation model that operates directly on image-matching-specific local features and generates global features for retrieval. We conduct experimental evaluations of our method in terms of both accuracy and efficiency, demonstrating its advantages over other methods. We also provide implementations of SuperGF using various types of local features, including dense and sparse learning-based or hand-crafted descriptors.
From a Bird's Eye View to See: Joint Camera and Subject Registration without the Camera Calibration
We tackle a new problem of multi-view camera and subject registration in the bird's eye view (BEV) without pre-given camera calibration. This is a very challenging problem since its only input is several RGB images from different first-person views (FPVs) for a multi-person scene, without the BEV image and the calibration of the FPVs, while the output is a unified plane with the localization and orientation of both the subjects and cameras in a BEV. We propose an end-to-end framework solving this problem, whose main idea can be divided into following parts: i) creating a view-transform subject detection module to transform the FPV to a virtual BEV including localization and orientation of each pedestrian, ii) deriving a geometric transformation based method to estimate camera localization and view direction, i.e., the camera registration in a unified BEV, iii) making use of spatial and appearance information to aggregate the subjects into the unified BEV. We collect a new large-scale synthetic dataset with rich annotations for evaluation. The experimental results show the remarkable effectiveness of our proposed method.
Shared Coupling-bridge for Weakly Supervised Local Feature Learning
Sparse local feature extraction is usually believed to be of important significance in typical vision tasks such as simultaneous localization and mapping, image matching and 3D reconstruction. At present, it still has some deficiencies needing further improvement, mainly including the discrimination power of extracted local descriptors, the localization accuracy of detected keypoints, and the efficiency of local feature learning. This paper focuses on promoting the currently popular sparse local feature learning with camera pose supervision. Therefore, it pertinently proposes a Shared Coupling-bridge scheme with four light-weight yet effective improvements for weakly-supervised local feature (SCFeat) learning. It mainly contains: i) the \emph{Feature-Fusion-ResUNet Backbone} (F2R-Backbone) for local descriptors learning, ii) a shared coupling-bridge normalization to improve the decoupling training of description network and detection network, iii) an improved detection network with peakiness measurement to detect keypoints and iv) the fundamental matrix error as a reward factor to further optimize feature detection training. Extensive experiments prove that our SCFeat improvement is effective. It could often obtain a state-of-the-art performance on classic image matching and visual localization. In terms of 3D reconstruction, it could still achieve competitive results. For sharing and communication, our source codes are available at https://github.com/sunjiayuanro/SCFeat.git.
Group Generalized Mean Pooling for Vision Transformer
Vision Transformer (ViT) extracts the final representation from either class token or an average of all patch tokens, following the architecture of Transformer in Natural Language Processing (NLP) or Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) in computer vision. However, studies for the best way of aggregating the patch tokens are still limited to average pooling, while widely-used pooling strategies, such as max and GeM pooling, can be considered. Despite their effectiveness, the existing pooling strategies do not consider the architecture of ViT and the channel-wise difference in the activation maps, aggregating the crucial and trivial channels with the same importance. In this paper, we present Group Generalized Mean (GGeM) pooling as a simple yet powerful pooling strategy for ViT. GGeM divides the channels into groups and computes GeM pooling with a shared pooling parameter per group. As ViT groups the channels via a multi-head attention mechanism, grouping the channels by GGeM leads to lower head-wise dependence while amplifying important channels on the activation maps. Exploiting GGeM shows 0.1%p to 0.7%p performance boosts compared to the baselines and achieves state-of-the-art performance for ViT-Base and ViT-Large models in ImageNet-1K classification task. Moreover, GGeM outperforms the existing pooling strategies on image retrieval and multi-modal representation learning tasks, demonstrating the superiority of GGeM for a variety of tasks. GGeM is a simple algorithm in that only a few lines of code are necessary for implementation.
Diffusion Art or Digital Forgery? Investigating Data Replication in Diffusion Models
Cutting-edge diffusion models produce images with high quality and customizability, enabling them to be used for commercial art and graphic design purposes. But do diffusion models create unique works of art, or are they replicating content directly from their training sets? In this work, we study image retrieval frameworks that enable us to compare generated images with training samples and detect when content has been replicated. Applying our frameworks to diffusion models trained on multiple datasets including Oxford flowers, Celeb-A, ImageNet, and LAION, we discuss how factors such as training set size impact rates of content replication. We also identify cases where diffusion models, including the popular Stable Diffusion model, blatantly copy from their training data.
LSVL: Large-scale season-invariant visual localization for UAVs
Localization of autonomous unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) relies heavily on Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS), which are susceptible to interference. Especially in security applications, robust localization algorithms independent of GNSS are needed to provide dependable operations of autonomous UAVs also in interfered conditions. Typical non-GNSS visual localization approaches rely on known starting pose, work only on a small-sized map, or require known flight paths before a mission starts. We consider the problem of localization with no information on initial pose or planned flight path. We propose a solution for global visual localization on a map at scale up to 100 km2, based on matching orthoprojected UAV images to satellite imagery using learned season-invariant descriptors. We show that the method is able to determine heading, latitude and longitude of the UAV at 12.6-18.7 m lateral translation error in as few as 23.2-44.4 updates from an uninformed initialization, also in situations of significant seasonal appearance difference (winter-summer) between the UAV image and the map. We evaluate the characteristics of multiple neural network architectures for generating the descriptors, and likelihood estimation methods that are able to provide fast convergence and low localization error. We also evaluate the operation of the algorithm using real UAV data and evaluate running time on a real-time embedded platform. We believe this is the first work that is able to recover the pose of an UAV at this scale and rate of convergence, while allowing significant seasonal difference between camera observations and map.
ADIR: Adaptive Diffusion for Image Reconstruction
In recent years, denoising diffusion models have demonstrated outstanding image generation performance. The information on natural images captured by these models is useful for many image reconstruction applications, where the task is to restore a clean image from its degraded observations. In this work, we propose a conditional sampling scheme that exploits the prior learned by diffusion models while retaining agreement with the observations. We then combine it with a novel approach for adapting pretrained diffusion denoising networks to their input. We examine two adaption strategies: the first uses only the degraded image, while the second, which we advocate, is performed using images that are ``nearest neighbors'' of the degraded image, retrieved from a diverse dataset using an off-the-shelf visual-language model. To evaluate our method, we test it on two state-of-the-art publicly available diffusion models, Stable Diffusion and Guided Diffusion. We show that our proposed `adaptive diffusion for image reconstruction' (ADIR) approach achieves a significant improvement in the super-resolution, deblurring, and text-based editing tasks.
Semantic Communication for Internet of Vehicles: A Multi-User Cooperative Approach
Internet of Vehicles (IoV) is expected to become the central infrastructure to provide advanced services to connected vehicles and users for higher transportation efficiency and security. A variety of emerging applications/services bring explosively growing demands for mobile data traffic between connected vehicles and roadside units (RSU), imposing the significant challenge of spectrum scarcity to IoV. In this paper, we propose a cooperative semantic-aware architecture to convey essential semantics from collaborated users to servers for lowering the data traffic. In contrast to current solutions that are mainly based on piling up highly complex signal processing techniques and multiple access capabilities in terms of syntactic communications, this paper puts forth the idea of semantic-aware content delivery in IoV. Specifically, the successful transmission of essential semantics of the source data is pursued, rather than the accurate reception of symbols regardless of its meaning as in conventional syntactic communications. To assess the benefits of the proposed architecture, we provide a case study of the image retrieval task for vehicles in intelligent transportation systems. Simulation results demonstrate that the proposed architecture outperforms the existing solutions with fewer radio resources, especially in a low signal-to-noise-ratio (SNR) regime, which can shed light on the potential of the proposed architecture in extending the applications in extreme environments.
Attention-Enhanced Cross-modal Localization Between 360 Images and Point Clouds
Visual localization plays an important role for intelligent robots and autonomous driving, especially when the accuracy of GNSS is unreliable. Recently, camera localization in LiDAR maps has attracted more and more attention for its low cost and potential robustness to illumination and weather changes. However, the commonly used pinhole camera has a narrow Field-of-View, thus leading to limited information compared with the omni-directional LiDAR data. To overcome this limitation, we focus on correlating the information of 360 equirectangular images to point clouds, proposing an end-to-end learnable network to conduct cross-modal visual localization by establishing similarity in high-dimensional feature space. Inspired by the attention mechanism, we optimize the network to capture the salient feature for comparing images and point clouds. We construct several sequences containing 360 equirectangular images and corresponding point clouds based on the KITTI-360 dataset and conduct extensive experiments. The results demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach.
Fast and Lightweight Scene Regressor for Camera Relocalization
Camera relocalization involving a prior 3D reconstruction plays a crucial role in many mixed reality and robotics applications. Estimating the camera pose directly with respect to pre-built 3D models can be prohibitively expensive for several applications with limited storage and/or communication bandwidth. Although recent scene and absolute pose regression methods have become popular for efficient camera localization, most of them are computation-resource intensive and difficult to obtain a real-time inference with high accuracy constraints. This study proposes a simple scene regression method that requires only a multi-layer perceptron network for mapping scene coordinates to achieve accurate camera pose estimations. The proposed approach uses sparse descriptors to regress the scene coordinates, instead of a dense RGB image. The use of sparse features provides several advantages. First, the proposed regressor network is substantially smaller than those reported in previous studies. This makes our system highly efficient and scalable. Second, the pre-built 3D models provide the most reliable and robust 2D-3D matches. Therefore, learning from them can lead to an awareness of equivalent features and substantially improve the generalization performance. A detailed analysis of our approach and extensive evaluations using existing datasets are provided to support the proposed method. The implementation detail is available at https://github.com/aislab/feat2map
Privacy-Preserving Visual Localization with Event Cameras
We present a robust, privacy-preserving visual localization algorithm using event cameras. While event cameras can potentially make robust localization due to high dynamic range and small motion blur, the sensors exhibit large domain gaps making it difficult to directly apply conventional image-based localization algorithms. To mitigate the gap, we propose applying event-to-image conversion prior to localization which leads to stable localization. In the privacy perspective, event cameras capture only a fraction of visual information compared to normal cameras, and thus can naturally hide sensitive visual details. To further enhance the privacy protection in our event-based pipeline, we introduce privacy protection at two levels, namely sensor and network level. Sensor level protection aims at hiding facial details with lightweight filtering while network level protection targets hiding the entire user's view in private scene applications using a novel neural network inference pipeline. Both levels of protection involve light-weight computation and incur only a small performance loss. We thus project our method to serve as a building block for practical location-based services using event cameras. The code and dataset will be made public through the following link: https://github.com/82magnolia/event_localization.
Information Retrieval from the Digitized Books
Extracting the relevant information out of a large number of documents is a challenging and tedious task. The quality of results generated by the traditionally available full-text search engine and text-based image retrieval systems is not optimal. Information retrieval (IR) tasks become more challenging with the nontraditional language scripts, as in the case of Indic scripts. The authors have developed OCR (Optical Character Recognition) Search Engine to make an Information Retrieval & Extraction (IRE) system that replicates the current state-of-the-art methods using the IRE and Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques. Here we have presented the study of the methods used for performing search and retrieval tasks. The details of this system, along with the statistics of the dataset (source: National Digital Library of India or NDLI), is also presented. Additionally, the ideas to further explore and add value to research in IRE are also discussed.
StructVPR: Distill Structural Knowledge with Weighting Samples for Visual Place Recognition
Visual place recognition (VPR) is usually considered as a specific image retrieval problem. Limited by existing training frameworks, most deep learning-based works cannot extract sufficiently stable global features from RGB images and rely on a time-consuming re-ranking step to exploit spatial structural information for better performance. In this paper, we propose StructVPR, a novel training architecture for VPR, to enhance structural knowledge in RGB global features and thus improve feature stability in a constantly changing environment. Specifically, StructVPR uses segmentation images as a more definitive source of structural knowledge input into a CNN network and applies knowledge distillation to avoid online segmentation and inference of seg-branch in testing. Considering that not all samples contain high-quality and helpful knowledge, and some even hurt the performance of distillation, we partition samples and weigh each sample's distillation loss to enhance the expected knowledge precisely. Finally, StructVPR achieves impressive performance on several benchmarks using only global retrieval and even outperforms many two-stage approaches by a large margin. After adding additional re-ranking, ours achieves state-of-the-art performance while maintaining a low computational cost.
Self-Supervised Feature Learning for Long-Term Metric Visual Localization
Visual localization is the task of estimating camera pose in a known scene, which is an essential problem in robotics and computer vision. However, long-term visual localization is still a challenge due to the environmental appearance changes caused by lighting and seasons. While techniques exist to address appearance changes using neural networks, these methods typically require ground-truth pose information to generate accurate image correspondences or act as a supervisory signal during training. In this paper, we present a novel self-supervised feature learning framework for metric visual localization. We use a sequence-based image matching algorithm across different sequences of images (i.e., experiences) to generate image correspondences without ground-truth labels. We can then sample image pairs to train a deep neural network that learns sparse features with associated descriptors and scores without ground-truth pose supervision. The learned features can be used together with a classical pose estimator for visual stereo localization. We validate the learned features by integrating with an existing Visual Teach & Repeat pipeline to perform closed-loop localization experiments under different lighting conditions for a total of 22.4 km.
SGDraw: Scene Graph Drawing Interface Using Object-Oriented Representation
Scene understanding is an essential and challenging task in computer vision. To provide the visually fundamental graphical structure of an image, the scene graph has received increased attention due to its powerful semantic representation. However, it is difficult to draw a proper scene graph for image retrieval, image generation, and multi-modal applications. The conventional scene graph annotation interface is not easy to use in image annotations, and the automatic scene graph generation approaches using deep neural networks are prone to generate redundant content while disregarding details. In this work, we propose SGDraw, a scene graph drawing interface using object-oriented scene graph representation to help users draw and edit scene graphs interactively. For the proposed object-oriented representation, we consider the objects, attributes, and relationships of objects as a structural unit. SGDraw provides a web-based scene graph annotation and generation tool for scene understanding applications. To verify the effectiveness of the proposed interface, we conducted a comparison study with the conventional tool and the user experience study. The results show that SGDraw can help generate scene graphs with richer details and describe the images more accurately than traditional bounding box annotations. We believe the proposed SGDraw can be useful in various vision tasks, such as image retrieval and generation.
RankDNN: Learning to Rank for Few-shot Learning
This paper introduces a new few-shot learning pipeline that casts relevance ranking for image retrieval as binary ranking relation classification. In comparison to image classification, ranking relation classification is sample efficient and domain agnostic. Besides, it provides a new perspective on few-shot learning and is complementary to state-of-the-art methods. The core component of our deep neural network is a simple MLP, which takes as input an image triplet encoded as the difference between two vector-Kronecker products, and outputs a binary relevance ranking order. The proposed RankMLP can be built on top of any state-of-the-art feature extractors, and our entire deep neural network is called the ranking deep neural network, or RankDNN. Meanwhile, RankDNN can be flexibly fused with other post-processing methods. During the meta test, RankDNN ranks support images according to their similarity with the query samples, and each query sample is assigned the class label of its nearest neighbor. Experiments demonstrate that RankDNN can effectively improve the performance of its baselines based on a variety of backbones and it outperforms previous state-of-the-art algorithms on multiple few-shot learning benchmarks, including miniImageNet, tieredImageNet, Caltech-UCSD Birds, and CIFAR-FS. Furthermore, experiments on the cross-domain challenge demonstrate the superior transferability of RankDNN.The code is available at: https://github.com/guoqianyu-alberta/RankDNN.
SLAN: Self-Locator Aided Network for Cross-Modal Understanding
Learning fine-grained interplay between vision and language allows to a more accurate understanding for VisionLanguage tasks. However, it remains challenging to extract key image regions according to the texts for semantic alignments. Most existing works are either limited by textagnostic and redundant regions obtained with the frozen detectors, or failing to scale further due to its heavy reliance on scarce grounding (gold) data to pre-train detectors. To solve these problems, we propose Self-Locator Aided Network (SLAN) for cross-modal understanding tasks without any extra gold data. SLAN consists of a region filter and a region adaptor to localize regions of interest conditioned on different texts. By aggregating cross-modal information, the region filter selects key regions and the region adaptor updates their coordinates with text guidance. With detailed region-word alignments, SLAN can be easily generalized to many downstream tasks. It achieves fairly competitive results on five cross-modal understanding tasks (e.g., 85.7% and 69.2% on COCO image-to-text and text-to-image retrieval, surpassing previous SOTA methods). SLAN also demonstrates strong zero-shot and fine-tuned transferability to two localization tasks.
Safety-quantifiable Line Feature-based Monocular Visual Localization with 3D Prior Map
Accurate and safety-quantifiable localization is of great significance for safety-critical autonomous systems, such as unmanned ground vehicles (UGV) and unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV). The visual odometry-based method can provide accurate positioning in a short period but is subjected to drift over time. Moreover, the quantification of the safety of the localization solution (the error is bounded by a certain value) is still a challenge. To fill the gaps, this paper proposes a safety-quantifiable line feature-based visual localization method with a prior map. The visual-inertial odometry provides a high-frequency local pose estimation which serves as the initial guess for the visual localization. By obtaining a visual line feature pair association, a foot point-based constraint is proposed to construct the cost function between the 2D lines extracted from the real-time image and the 3D lines extracted from the high-precision prior 3D point cloud map. Moreover, a global navigation satellite systems (GNSS) receiver autonomous integrity monitoring (RAIM) inspired method is employed to quantify the safety of the derived localization solution. Among that, an outlier rejection (also well-known as fault detection and exclusion) strategy is employed via the weighted sum of squares residual with a Chi-squared probability distribution. A protection level (PL) scheme considering multiple outliers is derived and utilized to quantify the potential error bound of the localization solution in both position and rotation domains. The effectiveness of the proposed safety-quantifiable localization system is verified using the datasets collected in the UAV indoor and UGV outdoor environments.
FeatureBooster: Boosting Feature Descriptors with a Lightweight Neural Network
We introduce a lightweight network to improve descriptors of keypoints within the same image. The network takes the original descriptors and the geometric properties of keypoints as the input, and uses an MLP-based self-boosting stage and a Transformer-based cross-boosting stage to enhance the descriptors. The boosted descriptors can be either real-valued or binary ones. We use the proposed network to boost both hand-crafted (ORB, SIFT) and the state-of-the-art learning-based descriptors (SuperPoint, ALIKE) and evaluate them on image matching, visual localization, and structure-from-motion tasks. The results show that our method significantly improves the performance of each task, particularly in challenging cases such as large illumination changes or repetitive patterns. Our method requires only 3.2ms on desktop GPU and 27ms on embedded GPU to process 2000 features, which is fast enough to be applied to a practical system. The code and trained weights are publicly available at github.com/SJTU-ViSYS/FeatureBooster.
BEV-Locator: An End-to-end Visual Semantic Localization Network Using Multi-View Images
Accurate localization ability is fundamental in autonomous driving. Traditional visual localization frameworks approach the semantic map-matching problem with geometric models, which rely on complex parameter tuning and thus hinder large-scale deployment. In this paper, we propose BEV-Locator: an end-to-end visual semantic localization neural network using multi-view camera images. Specifically, a visual BEV (Birds-Eye-View) encoder extracts and flattens the multi-view images into BEV space. While the semantic map features are structurally embedded as map queries sequence. Then a cross-model transformer associates the BEV features and semantic map queries. The localization information of ego-car is recursively queried out by cross-attention modules. Finally, the ego pose can be inferred by decoding the transformer outputs. We evaluate the proposed method in large-scale nuScenes and Qcraft datasets. The experimental results show that the BEV-locator is capable to estimate the vehicle poses under versatile scenarios, which effectively associates the cross-model information from multi-view images and global semantic maps. The experiments report satisfactory accuracy with mean absolute errors of 0.052m, 0.135m and 0.251$^\circ$ in lateral, longitudinal translation and heading angle degree.
A Faster, Lighter and Stronger Deep Learning-Based Approach for Place Recognition
Visual Place Recognition is an essential component of systems for camera localization and loop closure detection, and it has attracted widespread interest in multiple domains such as computer vision, robotics and AR/VR. In this work, we propose a faster, lighter and stronger approach that can generate models with fewer parameters and can spend less time in the inference stage. We designed RepVGG-lite as the backbone network in our architecture, it is more discriminative than other general networks in the Place Recognition task. RepVGG-lite has more speed advantages while achieving higher performance. We extract only one scale patch-level descriptors from global descriptors in the feature extraction stage. Then we design a trainable feature matcher to exploit both spatial relationships of the features and their visual appearance, which is based on the attention mechanism. Comprehensive experiments on challenging benchmark datasets demonstrate the proposed method outperforming recent other state-of-the-art learned approaches, and achieving even higher inference speed. Our system has 14 times less params than Patch-NetVLAD, 6.8 times lower theoretical FLOPs, and run faster 21 and 33 times in feature extraction and feature matching. Moreover, the performance of our approach is 0.5\% better than Patch-NetVLAD in Recall@1. We used subsets of Mapillary Street Level Sequences dataset to conduct experiments for all other challenging conditions.
Visual Place Recognition
Visual position recognition affects the safety and accuracy of automatic driving. To accurately identify the location, this paper studies a visual place recognition algorithm based on HMM filter and HMM smoother. Firstly, we constructed the traffic situations in Canberra city. Then the mathematical models of the HMM filter and HMM smoother were performed. Finally, the vehicle position was predicted based on the algorithms. Experiment results show that HMM smoother is better than HMM filter in terms of prediction accuracy.
Instance-level Heterogeneous Domain Adaptation for Limited-labeled Sketch-to-Photo Retrieval
Although sketch-to-photo retrieval has a wide range of applications, it is costly to obtain paired and rich-labeled ground truth. Differently, photo retrieval data is easier to acquire. Therefore, previous works pre-train their models on rich-labeled photo retrieval data (i.e., source domain) and then fine-tune them on the limited-labeled sketch-to-photo retrieval data (i.e., target domain). However, without co-training source and target data, source domain knowledge might be forgotten during the fine-tuning process, while simply co-training them may cause negative transfer due to domain gaps. Moreover, identity label spaces of source data and target data are generally disjoint and therefore conventional category-level Domain Adaptation (DA) is not directly applicable. To address these issues, we propose an Instance-level Heterogeneous Domain Adaptation (IHDA) framework. We apply the fine-tuning strategy for identity label learning, aiming to transfer the instance-level knowledge in an inductive transfer manner. Meanwhile, labeled attributes from the source data are selected to form a shared label space for source and target domains. Guided by shared attributes, DA is utilized to bridge cross-dataset domain gaps and heterogeneous domain gaps, which transfers instance-level knowledge in a transductive transfer manner. Experiments show that our method has set a new state of the art on three sketch-to-photo image retrieval benchmarks without extra annotations, which opens the door to train more effective models on limited-labeled heterogeneous image retrieval tasks. Related codes are available at https://github.com/fandulu/IHDA.
Roboflow 100: A Rich, Multi-Domain Object Detection Benchmark
The evaluation of object detection models is usually performed by optimizing a single metric, e.g. mAP, on a fixed set of datasets, e.g. Microsoft COCO and Pascal VOC. Due to image retrieval and annotation costs, these datasets consist largely of images found on the web and do not represent many real-life domains that are being modelled in practice, e.g. satellite, microscopic and gaming, making it difficult to assert the degree of generalization learned by the model. We introduce the Roboflow-100 (RF100) consisting of 100 datasets, 7 imagery domains, 224,714 images, and 805 class labels with over 11,170 labelling hours. We derived RF100 from over 90,000 public datasets, 60 million public images that are actively being assembled and labelled by computer vision practitioners in the open on the web application Roboflow Universe. By releasing RF100, we aim to provide a semantically diverse, multi-domain benchmark of datasets to help researchers test their model's generalizability with real-life data. RF100 download and benchmark replication are available on GitHub.
InDiReCT: Language-Guided Zero-Shot Deep Metric Learning for Images
Common Deep Metric Learning (DML) datasets specify only one notion of similarity, e.g., two images in the Cars196 dataset are deemed similar if they show the same car model. We argue that depending on the application, users of image retrieval systems have different and changing similarity notions that should be incorporated as easily as possible. Therefore, we present Language-Guided Zero-Shot Deep Metric Learning (LanZ-DML) as a new DML setting in which users control the properties that should be important for image representations without training data by only using natural language. To this end, we propose InDiReCT (Image representations using Dimensionality Reduction on CLIP embedded Texts), a model for LanZ-DML on images that exclusively uses a few text prompts for training. InDiReCT utilizes CLIP as a fixed feature extractor for images and texts and transfers the variation in text prompt embeddings to the image embedding space. Extensive experiments on five datasets and overall thirteen similarity notions show that, despite not seeing any images during training, InDiReCT performs better than strong baselines and approaches the performance of fully-supervised models. An analysis reveals that InDiReCT learns to focus on regions of the image that correlate with the desired similarity notion, which makes it a fast to train and easy to use method to create custom embedding spaces only using natural language.
Wild-Places: A Large-Scale Dataset for Lidar Place Recognition in Unstructured Natural Environments
Many existing datasets for lidar place recognition are solely representative of structured urban environments, and have recently been saturated in performance by deep learning based approaches. Natural and unstructured environments present many additional challenges for the tasks of long-term localisation but these environments are not represented in currently available datasets. To address this we introduce Wild-Places, a challenging large-scale dataset for lidar place recognition in unstructured, natural environments. Wild-Places contains eight lidar sequences collected with a handheld sensor payload over the course of fourteen months, containing a total of 63K undistorted lidar submaps along with accurate 6DoF ground truth. Our dataset contains multiple revisits both within and between sequences, allowing for both intra-sequence (i.e. loop closure detection) and inter-sequence (i.e. re-localisation) place recognition. We also benchmark several state-of-the-art approaches to demonstrate the challenges that this dataset introduces, particularly the case of long-term place recognition due to natural environments changing over time. Our dataset and code will be available at https://csiro-robotics.github.io/Wild-Places.
Content-Based Medical Image Retrieval with Opponent Class Adaptive Margin Loss
Broadspread use of medical imaging devices with digital storage has paved the way for curation of substantial data repositories. Fast access to image samples with similar appearance to suspected cases can help establish a consulting system for healthcare professionals, and improve diagnostic procedures while minimizing processing delays. However, manual querying of large data repositories is labor intensive. Content-based image retrieval (CBIR) offers an automated solution based on dense embedding vectors that represent image features to allow quantitative similarity assessments. Triplet learning has emerged as a powerful approach to recover embeddings in CBIR, albeit traditional loss functions ignore the dynamic relationship between opponent image classes. Here, we introduce a triplet-learning method for automated querying of medical image repositories based on a novel Opponent Class Adaptive Margin (OCAM) loss. OCAM uses a variable margin value that is updated continually during the course of training to maintain optimally discriminative representations. CBIR performance of OCAM is compared against state-of-the-art loss functions for representational learning on three public databases (gastrointestinal disease, skin lesion, lung disease). Comprehensive experiments in each application domain demonstrate the superior performance of OCAM against baselines.
FE-Fusion-VPR: Attention-based Multi-Scale Network Architecture for Visual Place Recognition by Fusing Frames and Events
Traditional visual place recognition (VPR), usually using standard cameras, is easy to fail due to glare or high-speed motion. By contrast, event cameras have the advantages of low latency, high temporal resolution, and high dynamic range, which can deal with the above issues. Nevertheless, event cameras are prone to failure in weakly textured or motionless scenes, while standard cameras can still provide appearance information in this case. Thus, exploiting the complementarity of standard cameras and event cameras can effectively improve the performance of VPR algorithms. In the paper, we propose FE-Fusion-VPR, an attention-based multi-scale network architecture for VPR by fusing frames and events. First, the intensity frame and event volume are fed into the two-stream feature extraction network for shallow feature fusion. Next, the three-scale features are obtained through the multi-scale fusion network and aggregated into three sub-descriptors using the VLAD layer. Finally, the weight of each sub-descriptor is learned through the descriptor re-weighting network to obtain the final refined descriptor. Experimental results show that on the Brisbane-Event-VPR and DDD20 datasets, the Recall@1 of our FE-Fusion-VPR is 29.26% and 33.59% higher than Event-VPR and Ensemble-EventVPR, and is 7.00% and 14.15% higher than MultiRes-NetVLAD and NetVLAD. To our knowledge, this is the first end-to-end network that goes beyond the existing event-based and frame-based SOTA methods to fuse frame and events directly for VPR.
