DreamHuman: Animatable 3D Avatars from Text
We present DreamHuman, a method to generate realistic animatable 3D human avatar models solely from textual descriptions. Recent text-to-3D methods have made considerable strides in generation, but are still lacking in important aspects. Control and often spatial resolution remain limited, existing methods produce fixed rather than animated 3D human models, and anthropometric consistency for complex structures like people remains a challenge. DreamHuman connects large text-to-image synthesis models, neural radiance fields, and statistical human body models in a novel modeling and optimization framework. This makes it possible to generate dynamic 3D human avatars with high-quality textures and learned, instance-specific, surface deformations. We demonstrate that our method is capable to generate a wide variety of animatable, realistic 3D human models from text. Our 3D models have diverse appearance, clothing, skin tones and body shapes, and significantly outperform both generic text-to-3D approaches and previous text-based 3D avatar generators in visual fidelity. For more results and animations please check our website at https://dream-human.github.io.
Neural Relighting with Subsurface Scattering by Learning the Radiance Transfer Gradient
Reconstructing and relighting objects and scenes under varying lighting conditions is challenging: existing neural rendering methods often cannot handle the complex interactions between materials and light. Incorporating pre-computed radiance transfer techniques enables global illumination, but still struggles with materials with subsurface scattering effects. We propose a novel framework for learning the radiance transfer field via volume rendering and utilizing various appearance cues to refine geometry end-to-end. This framework extends relighting and reconstruction capabilities to handle a wider range of materials in a data-driven fashion. The resulting models produce plausible rendering results in existing and novel conditions. We will release our code and a novel light stage dataset of objects with subsurface scattering effects publicly available.
Enhancing Neural Rendering Methods with Image Augmentations
Faithfully reconstructing 3D geometry and generating novel views of scenes are critical tasks in 3D computer vision. Despite the widespread use of image augmentations across computer vision applications, their potential remains underexplored when learning neural rendering methods (NRMs) for 3D scenes. This paper presents a comprehensive analysis of the use of image augmentations in NRMs, where we explore different augmentation strategies. We found that introducing image augmentations during training presents challenges such as geometric and photometric inconsistencies for learning NRMs from images. Specifically, geometric inconsistencies arise from alterations in shapes, positions, and orientations from the augmentations, disrupting spatial cues necessary for accurate 3D reconstruction. On the other hand, photometric inconsistencies arise from changes in pixel intensities introduced by the augmentations, affecting the ability to capture the underlying 3D structures of the scene. We alleviate these issues by focusing on color manipulations and introducing learnable appearance embeddings that allow NRMs to explain away photometric variations. Our experiments demonstrate the benefits of incorporating augmentations when learning NRMs, including improved photometric quality and surface reconstruction, as well as enhanced robustness against data quality issues, such as reduced training data and image degradations.
EPIC Fields: Marrying 3D Geometry and Video Understanding
Neural rendering is fuelling a unification of learning, 3D geometry and video understanding that has been waiting for more than two decades. Progress, however, is still hampered by a lack of suitable datasets and benchmarks. To address this gap, we introduce EPIC Fields, an augmentation of EPIC-KITCHENS with 3D camera information. Like other datasets for neural rendering, EPIC Fields removes the complex and expensive step of reconstructing cameras using photogrammetry, and allows researchers to focus on modelling problems. We illustrate the challenge of photogrammetry in egocentric videos of dynamic actions and propose innovations to address them. Compared to other neural rendering datasets, EPIC Fields is better tailored to video understanding because it is paired with labelled action segments and the recent VISOR segment annotations. To further motivate the community, we also evaluate two benchmark tasks in neural rendering and segmenting dynamic objects, with strong baselines that showcase what is not possible today. We also highlight the advantage of geometry in semi-supervised video object segmentations on the VISOR annotations. EPIC Fields reconstructs 96% of videos in EPICKITCHENS, registering 19M frames in 99 hours recorded in 45 kitchens.
GBSD: Generative Bokeh with Stage Diffusion
The bokeh effect is an artistic technique that blurs out-of-focus areas in a photograph and has gained interest due to recent developments in text-to-image synthesis and the ubiquity of smart-phone cameras and photo-sharing apps. Prior work on rendering bokeh effects have focused on post hoc image manipulation to produce similar blurring effects in existing photographs using classical computer graphics or neural rendering techniques, but have either depth discontinuity artifacts or are restricted to reproducing bokeh effects that are present in the training data. More recent diffusion based models can synthesize images with an artistic style, but either require the generation of high-dimensional masks, expensive fine-tuning, or affect global image characteristics. In this paper, we present GBSD, the first generative text-to-image model that synthesizes photorealistic images with a bokeh style. Motivated by how image synthesis occurs progressively in diffusion models, our approach combines latent diffusion models with a 2-stage conditioning algorithm to render bokeh effects on semantically defined objects. Since we can focus the effect on objects, this semantic bokeh effect is more versatile than classical rendering techniques. We evaluate GBSD both quantitatively and qualitatively and demonstrate its ability to be applied in both text-to-image and image-to-image settings.
DORSal: Diffusion for Object-centric Representations of Scenes $\textit{et al.}$
Recent progress in 3D scene understanding enables scalable learning of representations across large datasets of diverse scenes. As a consequence, generalization to unseen scenes and objects, rendering novel views from just a single or a handful of input images, and controllable scene generation that supports editing, is now possible. However, training jointly on a large number of scenes typically compromises rendering quality when compared to single-scene optimized models such as NeRFs. In this paper, we leverage recent progress in diffusion models to equip 3D scene representation learning models with the ability to render high-fidelity novel views, while retaining benefits such as object-level scene editing to a large degree. In particular, we propose DORSal, which adapts a video diffusion architecture for 3D scene generation conditioned on object-centric slot-based representations of scenes. On both complex synthetic multi-object scenes and on the real-world large-scale Street View dataset, we show that DORSal enables scalable neural rendering of 3D scenes with object-level editing and improves upon existing approaches.
Parametric Implicit Face Representation for Audio-Driven Facial Reenactment
Audio-driven facial reenactment is a crucial technique that has a range of applications in film-making, virtual avatars and video conferences. Existing works either employ explicit intermediate face representations (e.g., 2D facial landmarks or 3D face models) or implicit ones (e.g., Neural Radiance Fields), thus suffering from the trade-offs between interpretability and expressive power, hence between controllability and quality of the results. In this work, we break these trade-offs with our novel parametric implicit face representation and propose a novel audio-driven facial reenactment framework that is both controllable and can generate high-quality talking heads. Specifically, our parametric implicit representation parameterizes the implicit representation with interpretable parameters of 3D face models, thereby taking the best of both explicit and implicit methods. In addition, we propose several new techniques to improve the three components of our framework, including i) incorporating contextual information into the audio-to-expression parameters encoding; ii) using conditional image synthesis to parameterize the implicit representation and implementing it with an innovative tri-plane structure for efficient learning; iii) formulating facial reenactment as a conditional image inpainting problem and proposing a novel data augmentation technique to improve model generalizability. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method can generate more realistic results than previous methods with greater fidelity to the identities and talking styles of speakers.
From NeRFLiX to NeRFLiX++: A General NeRF-Agnostic Restorer Paradigm
Neural radiance fields (NeRF) have shown great success in novel view synthesis. However, recovering high-quality details from real-world scenes is still challenging for the existing NeRF-based approaches, due to the potential imperfect calibration information and scene representation inaccuracy. Even with high-quality training frames, the synthetic novel views produced by NeRF models still suffer from notable rendering artifacts, such as noise and blur. To address this, we propose NeRFLiX, a general NeRF-agnostic restorer paradigm that learns a degradation-driven inter-viewpoint mixer. Specially, we design a NeRF-style degradation modeling approach and construct large-scale training data, enabling the possibility of effectively removing NeRF-native rendering artifacts for deep neural networks. Moreover, beyond the degradation removal, we propose an inter-viewpoint aggregation framework that fuses highly related high-quality training images, pushing the performance of cutting-edge NeRF models to entirely new levels and producing highly photo-realistic synthetic views. Based on this paradigm, we further present NeRFLiX++ with a stronger two-stage NeRF degradation simulator and a faster inter-viewpoint mixer, achieving superior performance with significantly improved computational efficiency. Notably, NeRFLiX++ is capable of restoring photo-realistic ultra-high-resolution outputs from noisy low-resolution NeRF-rendered views. Extensive experiments demonstrate the excellent restoration ability of NeRFLiX++ on various novel view synthesis benchmarks.
NeRFool: Uncovering the Vulnerability of Generalizable Neural Radiance Fields against Adversarial Perturbations
Generalizable Neural Radiance Fields (GNeRF) are one of the most promising real-world solutions for novel view synthesis, thanks to their cross-scene generalization capability and thus the possibility of instant rendering on new scenes. While adversarial robustness is essential for real-world applications, little study has been devoted to understanding its implication on GNeRF. We hypothesize that because GNeRF is implemented by conditioning on the source views from new scenes, which are often acquired from the Internet or third-party providers, there are potential new security concerns regarding its real-world applications. Meanwhile, existing understanding and solutions for neural networks' adversarial robustness may not be applicable to GNeRF, due to its 3D nature and uniquely diverse operations. To this end, we present NeRFool, which to the best of our knowledge is the first work that sets out to understand the adversarial robustness of GNeRF. Specifically, NeRFool unveils the vulnerability patterns and important insights regarding GNeRF's adversarial robustness. Built upon the above insights gained from NeRFool, we further develop NeRFool+, which integrates two techniques capable of effectively attacking GNeRF across a wide range of target views, and provide guidelines for defending against our proposed attacks. We believe that our NeRFool/NeRFool+ lays the initial foundation for future innovations in developing robust real-world GNeRF solutions. Our codes are available at: https://github.com/GATECH-EIC/NeRFool.
HyP-NeRF: Learning Improved NeRF Priors using a HyperNetwork
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have become an increasingly popular representation to capture high-quality appearance and shape of scenes and objects. However, learning generalizable NeRF priors over categories of scenes or objects has been challenging due to the high dimensionality of network weight space. To address the limitations of existing work on generalization, multi-view consistency and to improve quality, we propose HyP-NeRF, a latent conditioning method for learning generalizable category-level NeRF priors using hypernetworks. Rather than using hypernetworks to estimate only the weights of a NeRF, we estimate both the weights and the multi-resolution hash encodings resulting in significant quality gains. To improve quality even further, we incorporate a denoise and finetune strategy that denoises images rendered from NeRFs estimated by the hypernetwork and finetunes it while retaining multiview consistency. These improvements enable us to use HyP-NeRF as a generalizable prior for multiple downstream tasks including NeRF reconstruction from single-view or cluttered scenes and text-to-NeRF. We provide qualitative comparisons and evaluate HyP-NeRF on three tasks: generalization, compression, and retrieval, demonstrating our state-of-the-art results.
GANeRF: Leveraging Discriminators to Optimize Neural Radiance Fields
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have shown impressive novel view synthesis results; nonetheless, even thorough recordings yield imperfections in reconstructions, for instance due to poorly observed areas or minor lighting changes. Our goal is to mitigate these imperfections from various sources with a joint solution: we take advantage of the ability of generative adversarial networks (GANs) to produce realistic images and use them to enhance realism in 3D scene reconstruction with NeRFs. To this end, we learn the patch distribution of a scene using an adversarial discriminator, which provides feedback to the radiance field reconstruction, thus improving realism in a 3D-consistent fashion. Thereby, rendering artifacts are repaired directly in the underlying 3D representation by imposing multi-view path rendering constraints. In addition, we condition a generator with multi-resolution NeRF renderings which is adversarially trained to further improve rendering quality. We demonstrate that our approach significantly improves rendering quality, e.g., nearly halving LPIPS scores compared to Nerfacto while at the same time improving PSNR by 1.4dB on the advanced indoor scenes of Tanks and Temples.
RePaint-NeRF: NeRF Editting via Semantic Masks and Diffusion Models
The emergence of Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) has promoted the development of synthesized high-fidelity views of the intricate real world. However, it is still a very demanding task to repaint the content in NeRF. In this paper, we propose a novel framework that can take RGB images as input and alter the 3D content in neural scenes. Our work leverages existing diffusion models to guide changes in the designated 3D content. Specifically, we semantically select the target object and a pre-trained diffusion model will guide the NeRF model to generate new 3D objects, which can improve the editability, diversity, and application range of NeRF. Experiment results show that our algorithm is effective for editing 3D objects in NeRF under different text prompts, including editing appearance, shape, and more. We validate our method on both real-world datasets and synthetic-world datasets for these editing tasks. Please visit https://repaintnerf.github.io for a better view of our results.
LU-NeRF: Scene and Pose Estimation by Synchronizing Local Unposed NeRFs
A critical obstacle preventing NeRF models from being deployed broadly in the wild is their reliance on accurate camera poses. Consequently, there is growing interest in extending NeRF models to jointly optimize camera poses and scene representation, which offers an alternative to off-the-shelf SfM pipelines which have well-understood failure modes. Existing approaches for unposed NeRF operate under limited assumptions, such as a prior pose distribution or coarse pose initialization, making them less effective in a general setting. In this work, we propose a novel approach, LU-NeRF, that jointly estimates camera poses and neural radiance fields with relaxed assumptions on pose configuration. Our approach operates in a local-to-global manner, where we first optimize over local subsets of the data, dubbed mini-scenes. LU-NeRF estimates local pose and geometry for this challenging few-shot task. The mini-scene poses are brought into a global reference frame through a robust pose synchronization step, where a final global optimization of pose and scene can be performed. We show our LU-NeRF pipeline outperforms prior attempts at unposed NeRF without making restrictive assumptions on the pose prior. This allows us to operate in the general SE(3) pose setting, unlike the baselines. Our results also indicate our model can be complementary to feature-based SfM pipelines as it compares favorably to COLMAP on low-texture and low-resolution images.
Enhance-NeRF: Multiple Performance Evaluation for Neural Radiance Fields
The quality of three-dimensional reconstruction is a key factor affecting the effectiveness of its application in areas such as virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR) technologies. Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) can generate realistic images from any viewpoint. It simultaneously reconstructs the shape, lighting, and materials of objects, and without surface defects, which breaks down the barrier between virtuality and reality. The potential spatial correspondences displayed by NeRF between reconstructed scenes and real-world scenes offer a wide range of practical applications possibilities. Despite significant progress in 3D reconstruction since NeRF were introduced, there remains considerable room for exploration and experimentation. NeRF-based models are susceptible to interference issues caused by colored "fog" noise. Additionally, they frequently encounter instabilities and failures while attempting to reconstruct unbounded scenes. Moreover, the model takes a significant amount of time to converge, making it even more challenging to use in such scenarios. Our approach, coined Enhance-NeRF, which adopts joint color to balance low and high reflectivity objects display, utilizes a decoding architecture with prior knowledge to improve recognition, and employs multi-layer performance evaluation mechanisms to enhance learning capacity. It achieves reconstruction of outdoor scenes within one hour under single-card condition. Based on experimental results, Enhance-NeRF partially enhances fitness capability and provides some support to outdoor scene reconstruction. The Enhance-NeRF method can be used as a plug-and-play component, making it easy to integrate with other NeRF-based models. The code is available at: https://github.com/TANQIanQ/Enhance-NeRF
Variable Radiance Field for Real-Life Category-Specifc Reconstruction from Single Image
Reconstructing category-specific objects from a single image is a challenging task that requires inferring the geometry and appearance of an object from a limited viewpoint. Existing methods typically rely on local feature retrieval based on re-projection with known camera intrinsic, which are slow and prone to distortion at viewpoints distant from the input image. In this paper, we present Variable Radiance Field (VRF), a novel framework that can efficiently reconstruct category-specific objects from a single image without known camera parameters. Our key contributions are: (1) We parameterize the geometry and appearance of the object using a multi-scale global feature extractor, which avoids frequent point-wise feature retrieval and camera dependency. We also propose a contrastive learning-based pretraining strategy to improve the feature extractor. (2) We reduce the geometric complexity of the object by learning a category template, and use hypernetworks to generate a small neural radiance field for fast and instance-specific rendering. (3) We align each training instance to the template space using a learned similarity transformation, which enables semantic-consistent learning across different objects. We evaluate our method on the CO3D dataset and show that it outperforms existing methods in terms of quality and speed. We also demonstrate its applicability to shape interpolation and object placement tasks.
StreetSurf: Extending Multi-view Implicit Surface Reconstruction to Street Views
We present a novel multi-view implicit surface reconstruction technique, termed StreetSurf, that is readily applicable to street view images in widely-used autonomous driving datasets, such as Waymo-perception sequences, without necessarily requiring LiDAR data. As neural rendering research expands rapidly, its integration into street views has started to draw interests. Existing approaches on street views either mainly focus on novel view synthesis with little exploration of the scene geometry, or rely heavily on dense LiDAR data when investigating reconstruction. Neither of them investigates multi-view implicit surface reconstruction, especially under settings without LiDAR data. Our method extends prior object-centric neural surface reconstruction techniques to address the unique challenges posed by the unbounded street views that are captured with non-object-centric, long and narrow camera trajectories. We delimit the unbounded space into three parts, close-range, distant-view and sky, with aligned cuboid boundaries, and adapt cuboid/hyper-cuboid hash-grids along with road-surface initialization scheme for finer and disentangled representation. To further address the geometric errors arising from textureless regions and insufficient viewing angles, we adopt geometric priors that are estimated using general purpose monocular models. Coupled with our implementation of efficient and fine-grained multi-stage ray marching strategy, we achieve state of the art reconstruction quality in both geometry and appearance within only one to two hours of training time with a single RTX3090 GPU for each street view sequence. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the reconstructed implicit surfaces have rich potential for various downstream tasks, including ray tracing and LiDAR simulation.
BAA-NGP: Bundle-Adjusting Accelerated Neural Graphics Primitives
Implicit neural representation has emerged as a powerful method for reconstructing 3D scenes from 2D images. Given a set of camera poses and associated images, the models can be trained to synthesize novel, unseen views. In order to expand the use cases for implicit neural representations, we need to incorporate camera pose estimation capabilities as part of the representation learning, as this is necessary for reconstructing scenes from real-world video sequences where cameras are generally not being tracked. Existing approaches like COLMAP and, most recently, bundle-adjusting neural radiance field methods often suffer from lengthy processing times. These delays ranging from hours to days, arise from laborious feature matching, hardware limitations, dense point sampling, and long training times required by a multi-layer perceptron structure with a large number of parameters. To address these challenges, we propose a framework called bundle-adjusting accelerated neural graphics primitives (BAA-NGP). Our approach leverages accelerated sampling and hash encoding to expedite both pose refinement/estimation and 3D scene reconstruction. Experimental results demonstrate that our method achieves a more than 10 to 20 $\times$ speed improvement in novel view synthesis compared to other bundle-adjusting neural radiance field methods without sacrificing the quality of pose estimation.
ATT3D: Amortized Text-to-3D Object Synthesis
Text-to-3D modelling has seen exciting progress by combining generative text-to-image models with image-to-3D methods like Neural Radiance Fields. DreamFusion recently achieved high-quality results but requires a lengthy, per-prompt optimization to create 3D objects. To address this, we amortize optimization over text prompts by training on many prompts simultaneously with a unified model, instead of separately. With this, we share computation across a prompt set, training in less time than per-prompt optimization. Our framework - Amortized text-to-3D (ATT3D) - enables knowledge-sharing between prompts to generalize to unseen setups and smooth interpolations between text for novel assets and simple animations.
Ada-TTA: Towards Adaptive High-Quality Text-to-Talking Avatar Synthesis
We are interested in a novel task, namely low-resource text-to-talking avatar. Given only a few-minute-long talking person video with the audio track as the training data and arbitrary texts as the driving input, we aim to synthesize high-quality talking portrait videos corresponding to the input text. This task has broad application prospects in the digital human industry but has not been technically achieved yet due to two challenges: (1) It is challenging to mimic the timbre from out-of-domain audio for a traditional multi-speaker Text-to-Speech system. (2) It is hard to render high-fidelity and lip-synchronized talking avatars with limited training data. In this paper, we introduce Adaptive Text-to-Talking Avatar (Ada-TTA), which (1) designs a generic zero-shot multi-speaker TTS model that well disentangles the text content, timbre, and prosody; and (2) embraces recent advances in neural rendering to achieve realistic audio-driven talking face video generation. With these designs, our method overcomes the aforementioned two challenges and achieves to generate identity-preserving speech and realistic talking person video. Experiments demonstrate that our method could synthesize realistic, identity-preserving, and audio-visual synchronized talking avatar videos.
H2-Mapping: Real-time Dense Mapping Using Hierarchical Hybrid Representation
Constructing a high-quality dense map in real-time is essential for robotics, AR/VR, and digital twins applications. As Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) greatly improves the mapping performance, in this paper, we propose a NeRF-based mapping method that enables higher-quality reconstruction and real-time capability even on edge computers. Specifically, we propose a novel hierarchical hybrid representation that leverages implicit multiresolution hash encoding aided by explicit octree SDF priors, describing the scene at different levels of detail. This representation allows for fast scene geometry initialization and makes scene geometry easier to learn. Besides, we present a coverage-maximizing keyframe selection strategy to address the forgetting issue and enhance mapping quality, particularly in marginal areas. To the best of our knowledge, our method is the first to achieve high-quality NeRF-based mapping on edge computers of handheld devices and quadrotors in real-time. Experiments demonstrate that our method outperforms existing NeRF-based mapping methods in geometry accuracy, texture realism, and time consumption. The code will be released at: https://github.com/SYSU-STAR/H2-Mapping
Neuralangelo: High-Fidelity Neural Surface Reconstruction
Neural surface reconstruction has been shown to be powerful for recovering dense 3D surfaces via image-based neural rendering. However, current methods struggle to recover detailed structures of real-world scenes. To address the issue, we present Neuralangelo, which combines the representation power of multi-resolution 3D hash grids with neural surface rendering. Two key ingredients enable our approach: (1) numerical gradients for computing higher-order derivatives as a smoothing operation and (2) coarse-to-fine optimization on the hash grids controlling different levels of details. Even without auxiliary inputs such as depth, Neuralangelo can effectively recover dense 3D surface structures from multi-view images with fidelity significantly surpassing previous methods, enabling detailed large-scale scene reconstruction from RGB video captures.
BeyondPixels: A Comprehensive Review of the Evolution of Neural Radiance Fields
Neural rendering combines ideas from classical computer graphics and machine learning to synthesize images from real-world observations. NeRF, short for Neural Radiance Fields, is a recent innovation that uses AI algorithms to create 3D objects from 2D images. By leveraging an interpolation approach, NeRF can produce new 3D reconstructed views of complicated scenes. Rather than directly restoring the whole 3D scene geometry, NeRF generates a volumetric representation called a ``radiance field,'' which is capable of creating color and density for every point within the relevant 3D space. The broad appeal and notoriety of NeRF make it imperative to examine the existing research on the topic comprehensively. While previous surveys on 3D rendering have primarily focused on traditional computer vision-based or deep learning-based approaches, only a handful of them discuss the potential of NeRF. However, such surveys have predominantly focused on NeRF's early contributions and have not explored its full potential. NeRF is a relatively new technique continuously being investigated for its capabilities and limitations. This survey reviews recent advances in NeRF and categorizes them according to their architectural designs, especially in the field of novel view synthesis.
Instruct-Video2Avatar: Video-to-Avatar Generation with Instructions
We propose a method for synthesizing edited photo-realistic digital avatars with text instructions. Given a short monocular RGB video and text instructions, our method uses an image-conditioned diffusion model to edit one head image and uses the video stylization method to accomplish the editing of other head images. Through iterative training and update (three times or more), our method synthesizes edited photo-realistic animatable 3D neural head avatars with a deformable neural radiance field head synthesis method. In quantitative and qualitative studies on various subjects, our method outperforms state-of-the-art methods.
ZIGNeRF: Zero-shot 3D Scene Representation with Invertible Generative Neural Radiance Fields
Generative Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) have demonstrated remarkable proficiency in synthesizing multi-view images by learning the distribution of a set of unposed images. Despite the aptitude of existing generative NeRFs in generating 3D-consistent high-quality random samples within data distribution, the creation of a 3D representation of a singular input image remains a formidable challenge. In this manuscript, we introduce ZIGNeRF, an innovative model that executes zero-shot Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) inversion for the generation of multi-view images from a single out-of-domain image. The model is underpinned by a novel inverter that maps out-of-domain images into the latent code of the generator manifold. Notably, ZIGNeRF is capable of disentangling the object from the background and executing 3D operations such as 360-degree rotation or depth and horizontal translation. The efficacy of our model is validated using multiple real-image datasets: Cats, AFHQ, CelebA, CelebA-HQ, and CompCars.
PanoGRF: Generalizable Spherical Radiance Fields for Wide-baseline Panoramas
Achieving an immersive experience enabling users to explore virtual environments with six degrees of freedom (6DoF) is essential for various applications such as virtual reality (VR). Wide-baseline panoramas are commonly used in these applications to reduce network bandwidth and storage requirements. However, synthesizing novel views from these panoramas remains a key challenge. Although existing neural radiance field methods can produce photorealistic views under narrow-baseline and dense image captures, they tend to overfit the training views when dealing with \emph{wide-baseline} panoramas due to the difficulty in learning accurate geometry from sparse $360^{\circ}$ views. To address this problem, we propose PanoGRF, Generalizable Spherical Radiance Fields for Wide-baseline Panoramas, which construct spherical radiance fields incorporating $360^{\circ}$ scene priors. Unlike generalizable radiance fields trained on perspective images, PanoGRF avoids the information loss from panorama-to-perspective conversion and directly aggregates geometry and appearance features of 3D sample points from each panoramic view based on spherical projection. Moreover, as some regions of the panorama are only visible from one view while invisible from others under wide baseline settings, PanoGRF incorporates $360^{\circ}$ monocular depth priors into spherical depth estimation to improve the geometry features. Experimental results on multiple panoramic datasets demonstrate that PanoGRF significantly outperforms state-of-the-art generalizable view synthesis methods for wide-baseline panoramas (e.g., OmniSyn) and perspective images (e.g., IBRNet, NeuRay).
Analyzing the Internals of Neural Radiance Fields
Modern Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) learn a mapping from position to volumetric density via proposal network samplers. In contrast to the coarse-to-fine sampling approach with two NeRFs, this offers significant potential for speedups using lower network capacity as the task of mapping spatial coordinates to volumetric density involves no view-dependent effects and is thus much easier to learn. Given that most of the network capacity is utilized to estimate radiance, NeRFs could store valuable density information in their parameters or their deep features. To this end, we take one step back and analyze large, trained ReLU-MLPs used in coarse-to-fine sampling. We find that trained NeRFs, Mip-NeRFs and proposal network samplers map samples with high density to local minima along a ray in activation feature space. We show how these large MLPs can be accelerated by transforming the intermediate activations to a weight estimate, without any modifications to the parameters post-optimization. With our approach, we can reduce the computational requirements of trained NeRFs by up to 50% with only a slight hit in rendering quality and no changes to the training protocol or architecture. We evaluate our approach on a variety of architectures and datasets, showing that our proposition holds in various settings.
AvatarStudio: Text-driven Editing of 3D Dynamic Human Head Avatars
Capturing and editing full head performances enables the creation of virtual characters with various applications such as extended reality and media production. The past few years witnessed a steep rise in the photorealism of human head avatars. Such avatars can be controlled through different input data modalities, including RGB, audio, depth, IMUs and others. While these data modalities provide effective means of control, they mostly focus on editing the head movements such as the facial expressions, head pose and/or camera viewpoint. In this paper, we propose AvatarStudio, a text-based method for editing the appearance of a dynamic full head avatar. Our approach builds on existing work to capture dynamic performances of human heads using neural radiance field (NeRF) and edits this representation with a text-to-image diffusion model. Specifically, we introduce an optimization strategy for incorporating multiple keyframes representing different camera viewpoints and time stamps of a video performance into a single diffusion model. Using this personalized diffusion model, we edit the dynamic NeRF by introducing view-and-time-aware Score Distillation Sampling (VT-SDS) following a model-based guidance approach. Our method edits the full head in a canonical space, and then propagates these edits to remaining time steps via a pretrained deformation network. We evaluate our method visually and numerically via a user study, and results show that our method outperforms existing approaches. Our experiments validate the design choices of our method and highlight that our edits are genuine, personalized, as well as 3D- and time-consistent.
Towards Neural Path Tracing in SRAM
We present an experimental neural path tracer designed to exploit the large on-chip memory of Graphcore intelligence-processing-units (IPUs). This open source renderer demonstrates how to map path tracing to the novel software and hardware architecture and is a useful tool for analysing in-cache neural-rendering scenarios. Such scenarios will be increasingly important if rasterisation is replaced by combinations of ray/path tracing, neural-radiance caching, and AI denoising/up-scaling, for which small neural networks are already routinely employed. A detailed description of the implementation also serves as a self-contained resource for more general software design on IPU.
DäRF: Boosting Radiance Fields from Sparse Inputs with Monocular Depth Adaptation
Neural radiance fields (NeRF) shows powerful performance in novel view synthesis and 3D geometry reconstruction, but it suffers from critical performance degradation when the number of known viewpoints is drastically reduced. Existing works attempt to overcome this problem by employing external priors, but their success is limited to certain types of scenes or datasets. Employing monocular depth estimation (MDE) networks, pretrained on large-scale RGB-D datasets, with powerful generalization capability would be a key to solving this problem: however, using MDE in conjunction with NeRF comes with a new set of challenges due to various ambiguity problems exhibited by monocular depths. In this light, we propose a novel framework, dubbed D\"aRF, that achieves robust NeRF reconstruction with a handful of real-world images by combining the strengths of NeRF and monocular depth estimation through online complementary training. Our framework imposes the MDE network's powerful geometry prior to NeRF representation at both seen and unseen viewpoints to enhance its robustness and coherence. In addition, we overcome the ambiguity problems of monocular depths through patch-wise scale-shift fitting and geometry distillation, which adapts the MDE network to produce depths aligned accurately with NeRF geometry. Experiments show our framework achieves state-of-the-art results both quantitatively and qualitatively, demonstrating consistent and reliable performance in both indoor and outdoor real-world datasets. Project page is available at https://ku-cvlab.github.io/DaRF/.
Template-free Articulated Neural Point Clouds for Reposable View Synthesis
Dynamic Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) achieve remarkable visual quality when synthesizing novel views of time-evolving 3D scenes. However, the common reliance on backward deformation fields makes reanimation of the captured object poses challenging. Moreover, the state of the art dynamic models are often limited by low visual fidelity, long reconstruction time or specificity to narrow application domains. In this paper, we present a novel method utilizing a point-based representation and Linear Blend Skinning (LBS) to jointly learn a Dynamic NeRF and an associated skeletal model from even sparse multi-view video. Our forward-warping approach achieves state-of-the-art visual fidelity when synthesizing novel views and poses while significantly reducing the necessary learning time when compared to existing work. We demonstrate the versatility of our representation on a variety of articulated objects from common datasets and obtain reposable 3D reconstructions without the need of object-specific skeletal templates. Code will be made available at https://github.com/lukasuz/Articulated-Point-NeRF.
HiFA: High-fidelity Text-to-3D with Advanced Diffusion Guidance
Automatic text-to-3D synthesis has achieved remarkable advancements through the optimization of 3D models. Existing methods commonly rely on pre-trained text-to-image generative models, such as diffusion models, providing scores for 2D renderings of Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) and being utilized for optimizing NeRFs. However, these methods often encounter artifacts and inconsistencies across multiple views due to their limited understanding of 3D geometry. To address these limitations, we propose a reformulation of the optimization loss using the diffusion prior. Furthermore, we introduce a novel training approach that unlocks the potential of the diffusion prior. To improve 3D geometry representation, we apply auxiliary depth supervision for NeRF-rendered images and regularize the density field of NeRFs. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of our method over prior works, resulting in advanced photo-realism and improved multi-view consistency.
Compact Real-time Radiance Fields with Neural Codebook
Reconstructing neural radiance fields with explicit volumetric representations, demonstrated by Plenoxels, has shown remarkable advantages on training and rendering efficiency, while grid-based representations typically induce considerable overhead for storage and transmission. In this work, we present a simple and effective framework for pursuing compact radiance fields from the perspective of compression methodology. By exploiting intrinsic properties exhibiting in grid models, a non-uniform compression stem is developed to significantly reduce model complexity and a novel parameterized module, named Neural Codebook, is introduced for better encoding high-frequency details specific to per-scene models via a fast optimization. Our approach can achieve over 40 $\times$ reduction on grid model storage with competitive rendering quality. In addition, the method can achieve real-time rendering speed with 180 fps, realizing significant advantage on storage cost compared to real-time rendering methods.
Towards a Robust Framework for NeRF Evaluation
Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) research has attracted significant attention recently, with 3D modelling, virtual/augmented reality, and visual effects driving its application. While current NeRF implementations can produce high quality visual results, there is a conspicuous lack of reliable methods for evaluating them. Conventional image quality assessment methods and analytical metrics (e.g. PSNR, SSIM, LPIPS etc.) only provide approximate indicators of performance since they generalise the ability of the entire NeRF pipeline. Hence, in this paper, we propose a new test framework which isolates the neural rendering network from the NeRF pipeline and then performs a parametric evaluation by training and evaluating the NeRF on an explicit radiance field representation. We also introduce a configurable approach for generating representations specifically for evaluation purposes. This employs ray-casting to transform mesh models into explicit NeRF samples, as well as to "shade" these representations. Combining these two approaches, we demonstrate how different "tasks" (scenes with different visual effects or learning strategies) and types of networks (NeRFs and depth-wise implicit neural representations (INRs)) can be evaluated within this framework. Additionally, we propose a novel metric to measure task complexity of the framework which accounts for the visual parameters and the distribution of the spatial data. Our approach offers the potential to create a comparative objective evaluation framework for NeRF methods.
Volume Feature Rendering for Fast Neural Radiance Field Reconstruction
Neural radiance fields (NeRFs) are able to synthesize realistic novel views from multi-view images captured from distinct positions and perspectives. In NeRF's rendering pipeline, neural networks are used to represent a scene independently or transform queried learnable feature vector of a point to the expected color or density. With the aid of geometry guides either in occupancy grids or proposal networks, the number of neural network evaluations can be reduced from hundreds to dozens in the standard volume rendering framework. Instead of rendering yielded color after neural network evaluation, we propose to render the queried feature vectors of a ray first and then transform the rendered feature vector to the final pixel color by a neural network. This fundamental change to the standard volume rendering framework requires only one single neural network evaluation to render a pixel, which substantially lowers the high computational complexity of the rendering framework attributed to a large number of neural network evaluations. Consequently, we can use a comparably larger neural network to achieve a better rendering quality while maintaining the same training and rendering time costs. Our model achieves the state-of-the-art rendering quality on both synthetic and real-world datasets while requiring a training time of several minutes.
FastMESH: Fast Surface Reconstruction by Hexagonal Mesh-based Neural Rendering
Despite the promising results of multi-view reconstruction, the recent neural rendering-based methods, such as implicit surface rendering (IDR) and volume rendering (NeuS), not only incur a heavy computational burden on training but also have the difficulties in disentangling the geometric and appearance. Although having achieved faster training speed than implicit representation and hash coding, the explicit voxel-based method obtains the inferior results on recovering surface. To address these challenges, we propose an effective mesh-based neural rendering approach, named FastMESH, which only samples at the intersection of ray and mesh. A coarse-to-fine scheme is introduced to efficiently extract the initial mesh by space carving. More importantly, we suggest a hexagonal mesh model to preserve surface regularity by constraining the second-order derivatives of vertices, where only low level of positional encoding is engaged for neural rendering. The experiments demonstrate that our approach achieves the state-of-the-art results on both reconstruction and novel view synthesis. Besides, we obtain 10-fold acceleration on training comparing to the implicit representation-based methods.
NeRO: Neural Geometry and BRDF Reconstruction of Reflective Objects from Multiview Images
We present a neural rendering-based method called NeRO for reconstructing the geometry and the BRDF of reflective objects from multiview images captured in an unknown environment. Multiview reconstruction of reflective objects is extremely challenging because specular reflections are view-dependent and thus violate the multiview consistency, which is the cornerstone for most multiview reconstruction methods. Recent neural rendering techniques can model the interaction between environment lights and the object surfaces to fit the view-dependent reflections, thus making it possible to reconstruct reflective objects from multiview images. However, accurately modeling environment lights in the neural rendering is intractable, especially when the geometry is unknown. Most existing neural rendering methods, which can model environment lights, only consider direct lights and rely on object masks to reconstruct objects with weak specular reflections. Therefore, these methods fail to reconstruct reflective objects, especially when the object mask is not available and the object is illuminated by indirect lights. We propose a two-step approach to tackle this problem. First, by applying the split-sum approximation and the integrated directional encoding to approximate the shading effects of both direct and indirect lights, we are able to accurately reconstruct the geometry of reflective objects without any object masks. Then, with the object geometry fixed, we use more accurate sampling to recover the environment lights and the BRDF of the object. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method is capable of accurately reconstructing the geometry and the BRDF of reflective objects from only posed RGB images without knowing the environment lights and the object masks. Codes and datasets are available at https://github.com/liuyuan-pal/NeRO.
Generalizable Pose Estimation Using Implicit Scene Representations
6-DoF pose estimation is an essential component of robotic manipulation pipelines. However, it usually suffers from a lack of generalization to new instances and object types. Most widely used methods learn to infer the object pose in a discriminative setup where the model filters useful information to infer the exact pose of the object. While such methods offer accurate poses, the model does not store enough information to generalize to new objects. In this work, we address the generalization capability of pose estimation using models that contain enough information about the object to render it in different poses. We follow the line of work that inverts neural renderers to infer the pose. We propose i-$\sigma$SRN to maximize the information flowing from the input pose to the rendered scene and invert them to infer the pose given an input image. Specifically, we extend Scene Representation Networks (SRNs) by incorporating a separate network for density estimation and introduce a new way of obtaining a weighted scene representation. We investigate several ways of initial pose estimates and losses for the neural renderer. Our final evaluation shows a significant improvement in inference performance and speed compared to existing approaches.
PlaNeRF: SVD Unsupervised 3D Plane Regularization for NeRF Large-Scale Scene Reconstruction
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) enable 3D scene reconstruction from 2D images and camera poses for Novel View Synthesis (NVS). Although NeRF can produce photorealistic results, it often suffers from overfitting to training views, leading to poor geometry reconstruction, especially in low-texture areas. This limitation restricts many important applications which require accurate geometry, such as extrapolated NVS, HD mapping and scene editing. To address this limitation, we propose a new method to improve NeRF's 3D structure using only RGB images and semantic maps. Our approach introduces a novel plane regularization based on Singular Value Decomposition (SVD), that does not rely on any geometric prior. In addition, we leverage the Structural Similarity Index Measure (SSIM) in our loss design to properly initialize the volumetric representation of NeRF. Quantitative and qualitative results show that our method outperforms popular regularization approaches in accurate geometry reconstruction for large-scale outdoor scenes and achieves SoTA rendering quality on the KITTI-360 NVS benchmark.
ZeroAvatar: Zero-shot 3D Avatar Generation from a Single Image
Recent advancements in text-to-image generation have enabled significant progress in zero-shot 3D shape generation. This is achieved by score distillation, a methodology that uses pre-trained text-to-image diffusion models to optimize the parameters of a 3D neural presentation, e.g. Neural Radiance Field (NeRF). While showing promising results, existing methods are often not able to preserve the geometry of complex shapes, such as human bodies. To address this challenge, we present ZeroAvatar, a method that introduces the explicit 3D human body prior to the optimization process. Specifically, we first estimate and refine the parameters of a parametric human body from a single image. Then during optimization, we use the posed parametric body as additional geometry constraint to regularize the diffusion model as well as the underlying density field. Lastly, we propose a UV-guided texture regularization term to further guide the completion of texture on invisible body parts. We show that ZeroAvatar significantly enhances the robustness and 3D consistency of optimization-based image-to-3D avatar generation, outperforming existing zero-shot image-to-3D methods.
Interactive Segment Anything NeRF with Feature Imitation
This paper investigates the potential of enhancing Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) with semantics to expand their applications. Although NeRF has been proven useful in real-world applications like VR and digital creation, the lack of semantics hinders interaction with objects in complex scenes. We propose to imitate the backbone feature of off-the-shelf perception models to achieve zero-shot semantic segmentation with NeRF. Our framework reformulates the segmentation process by directly rendering semantic features and only applying the decoder from perception models. This eliminates the need for expensive backbones and benefits 3D consistency. Furthermore, we can project the learned semantics onto extracted mesh surfaces for real-time interaction. With the state-of-the-art Segment Anything Model (SAM), our framework accelerates segmentation by 16 times with comparable mask quality. The experimental results demonstrate the efficacy and computational advantages of our approach. Project page: \url{https://me.kiui.moe/san/}.
InpaintNeRF360: Text-Guided 3D Inpainting on Unbounded Neural Radiance Fields
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) can generate highly realistic novel views. However, editing 3D scenes represented by NeRF across 360-degree views, particularly removing objects while preserving geometric and photometric consistency, remains a challenging problem due to NeRF's implicit scene representation. In this paper, we propose InpaintNeRF360, a unified framework that utilizes natural language instructions as guidance for inpainting NeRF-based 3D scenes.Our approach employs a promptable segmentation model by generating multi-modal prompts from the encoded text for multiview segmentation. We apply depth-space warping to enforce viewing consistency in the segmentations, and further refine the inpainted NeRF model using perceptual priors to ensure visual plausibility. InpaintNeRF360 is capable of simultaneously removing multiple objects or modifying object appearance based on text instructions while synthesizing 3D viewing-consistent and photo-realistic inpainting. Through extensive experiments on both unbounded and frontal-facing scenes trained through NeRF, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach and showcase its potential to enhance the editability of implicit radiance fields.
OD-NeRF: Efficient Training of On-the-Fly Dynamic Neural Radiance Fields
Dynamic neural radiance fields (dynamic NeRFs) have demonstrated impressive results in novel view synthesis on 3D dynamic scenes. However, they often require complete video sequences for training followed by novel view synthesis, which is similar to playing back the recording of a dynamic 3D scene. In contrast, we propose OD-NeRF to efficiently train and render dynamic NeRFs on-the-fly which instead is capable of streaming the dynamic scene. When training on-the-fly, the training frames become available sequentially and the model is trained and rendered frame-by-frame. The key challenge of efficient on-the-fly training is how to utilize the radiance field estimated from the previous frames effectively. To tackle this challenge, we propose: 1) a NeRF model conditioned on the multi-view projected colors to implicitly track correspondence between the current and previous frames, and 2) a transition and update algorithm that leverages the occupancy grid from the last frame to sample efficiently at the current frame. Our algorithm can achieve an interactive speed of 6FPS training and rendering on synthetic dynamic scenes on-the-fly, and a significant speed-up compared to the state-of-the-art on real-world dynamic scenes.
REC-MV: REconstructing 3D Dynamic Cloth from Monocular Videos
Reconstructing dynamic 3D garment surfaces with open boundaries from monocular videos is an important problem as it provides a practical and low-cost solution for clothes digitization. Recent neural rendering methods achieve high-quality dynamic clothed human reconstruction results from monocular video, but these methods cannot separate the garment surface from the body. Moreover, despite existing garment reconstruction methods based on feature curve representation demonstrating impressive results for garment reconstruction from a single image, they struggle to generate temporally consistent surfaces for the video input. To address the above limitations, in this paper, we formulate this task as an optimization problem of 3D garment feature curves and surface reconstruction from monocular video. We introduce a novel approach, called REC-MV, to jointly optimize the explicit feature curves and the implicit signed distance field (SDF) of the garments. Then the open garment meshes can be extracted via garment template registration in the canonical space. Experiments on multiple casually captured datasets show that our approach outperforms existing methods and can produce high-quality dynamic garment surfaces. The source code is available at https://github.com/GAP-LAB-CUHK-SZ/REC-MV.
3D Open-vocabulary Segmentation with Foundation Models
Open-vocabulary segmentation of 3D scenes is a fundamental function of human perception and thus a crucial objective in computer vision research. However, this task is heavily impeded by the lack of large-scale and diverse 3D open-vocabulary segmentation datasets for training robust and generalizable models. Distilling knowledge from pre-trained 2D open-vocabulary segmentation models helps but it compromises the open-vocabulary feature significantly as the 2D models are mostly finetuned with close-vocabulary datasets. We tackle the challenges in 3D open-vocabulary segmentation by exploiting the open-vocabulary multimodal knowledge and object reasoning capability of pre-trained foundation models CLIP and DINO, without necessitating any fine-tuning. Specifically, we distill open-vocabulary visual and textual knowledge from CLIP into a neural radiance field (NeRF) which effectively lifts 2D features into view-consistent 3D segmentation. Furthermore, we introduce the Relevancy-Distribution Alignment loss and Feature-Distribution Alignment loss to respectively mitigate the ambiguities of CLIP features and distill precise object boundaries from DINO features, eliminating the need for segmentation annotations during training. Extensive experiments show that our method even outperforms fully supervised models trained with segmentation annotations, suggesting that 3D open-vocabulary segmentation can be effectively learned from 2D images and text-image pairs.
NeRFuser: Large-Scale Scene Representation by NeRF Fusion
A practical benefit of implicit visual representations like Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) is their memory efficiency: large scenes can be efficiently stored and shared as small neural nets instead of collections of images. However, operating on these implicit visual data structures requires extending classical image-based vision techniques (e.g., registration, blending) from image sets to neural fields. Towards this goal, we propose NeRFuser, a novel architecture for NeRF registration and blending that assumes only access to pre-generated NeRFs, and not the potentially large sets of images used to generate them. We propose registration from re-rendering, a technique to infer the transformation between NeRFs based on images synthesized from individual NeRFs. For blending, we propose sample-based inverse distance weighting to blend visual information at the ray-sample level. We evaluate NeRFuser on public benchmarks and a self-collected object-centric indoor dataset, showing the robustness of our method, including to views that are challenging to render from the individual source NeRFs.
Registering Neural Radiance Fields as 3D Density Images
No significant work has been done to directly merge two partially overlapping scenes using NeRF representations. Given pre-trained NeRF models of a 3D scene with partial overlapping, this paper aligns them with a rigid transform, by generalizing the traditional registration pipeline, that is, key point detection and point set registration, to operate on 3D density fields. To describe corner points as key points in 3D, we propose to use universal pre-trained descriptor-generating neural networks that can be trained and tested on different scenes. We perform experiments to demonstrate that the descriptor networks can be conveniently trained using a contrastive learning strategy. We demonstrate that our method, as a global approach, can effectively register NeRF models, thus making possible future large-scale NeRF construction by registering its smaller and overlapping NeRFs captured individually.
Text2NeRF: Text-Driven 3D Scene Generation with Neural Radiance Fields
Text-driven 3D scene generation is widely applicable to video gaming, film industry, and metaverse applications that have a large demand for 3D scenes. However, existing text-to-3D generation methods are limited to producing 3D objects with simple geometries and dreamlike styles that lack realism. In this work, we present Text2NeRF, which is able to generate a wide range of 3D scenes with complicated geometric structures and high-fidelity textures purely from a text prompt. To this end, we adopt NeRF as the 3D representation and leverage a pre-trained text-to-image diffusion model to constrain the 3D reconstruction of the NeRF to reflect the scene description. Specifically, we employ the diffusion model to infer the text-related image as the content prior and use a monocular depth estimation method to offer the geometric prior. Both content and geometric priors are utilized to update the NeRF model. To guarantee textured and geometric consistency between different views, we introduce a progressive scene inpainting and updating strategy for novel view synthesis of the scene. Our method requires no additional training data but only a natural language description of the scene as the input. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our Text2NeRF outperforms existing methods in producing photo-realistic, multi-view consistent, and diverse 3D scenes from a variety of natural language prompts.
ConsistentNeRF: Enhancing Neural Radiance Fields with 3D Consistency for Sparse View Synthesis
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) has demonstrated remarkable 3D reconstruction capabilities with dense view images. However, its performance significantly deteriorates under sparse view settings. We observe that learning the 3D consistency of pixels among different views is crucial for improving reconstruction quality in such cases. In this paper, we propose ConsistentNeRF, a method that leverages depth information to regularize both multi-view and single-view 3D consistency among pixels. Specifically, ConsistentNeRF employs depth-derived geometry information and a depth-invariant loss to concentrate on pixels that exhibit 3D correspondence and maintain consistent depth relationships. Extensive experiments on recent representative works reveal that our approach can considerably enhance model performance in sparse view conditions, achieving improvements of up to 94% in PSNR, 76% in SSIM, and 31% in LPIPS compared to the vanilla baselines across various benchmarks, including DTU, NeRF Synthetic, and LLFF.
MultiPlaneNeRF: Neural Radiance Field with Non-Trainable Representation
NeRF is a popular model that efficiently represents 3D objects from 2D images. However, vanilla NeRF has a few important limitations. NeRF must be trained on each object separately. The training time is long since we encode the object's shape and color in neural network weights. Moreover, NeRF does not generalize well to unseen data. In this paper, we present MultiPlaneNeRF -- a first model that simultaneously solves all the above problems. Our model works directly on 2D images. We project 3D points on 2D images to produce non-trainable representations. The projection step is not parametrized, and a very shallow decoder can efficiently process the representation. Using existing images as part of NeRF can significantly reduce the number of parameters since we train only a small implicit decoder. Furthermore, we can train MultiPlaneNeRF on a large data set and force our implicit decoder to generalize across many objects. Consequently, we can only replace the 2D images (without additional training) to produce a NeRF representation of the new object. In the experimental section, we demonstrate that MultiPlaneNeRF achieves comparable results to state-of-the-art models for synthesizing new views and has generalization properties.
OR-NeRF: Object Removing from 3D Scenes Guided by Multiview Segmentation with Neural Radiance Fields
The emergence of Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) for novel view synthesis has led to increased interest in 3D scene editing. One important task in editing is removing objects from a scene while ensuring visual reasonability and multiview consistency. However, current methods face challenges such as time-consuming object labelling, limited capability to remove specific targets, and compromised rendering quality after removal. This paper proposes a novel object-removing pipeline, named OR-NeRF, that can remove objects from 3D scenes with either point or text prompts on a single view, achieving better performance in less time than previous works. Our method uses a points projection strategy to rapidly spread user annotations to all views, significantly reducing the processing burden. This algorithm allows us to leverage the recent 2D segmentation model Segment-Anything (SAM) to predict masks with improved precision and efficiency. Additionally, we obtain colour and depth priors through 2D inpainting methods. Finally, our algorithm employs depth supervision and perceptual loss for scene reconstruction to maintain consistency in geometry and appearance after object removal. Experimental results demonstrate that our method achieves better editing quality with less time than previous works, considering both quality and quantity.
NerfBridge: Bringing Real-time, Online Neural Radiance Field Training to Robotics
This work was presented at the IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation 2023 Workshop on Unconventional Spatial Representations.   Neural radiance fields (NeRFs) are a class of implicit scene representations that model 3D environments from color images. NeRFs are expressive, and can model the complex and multi-scale geometry of real world environments, which potentially makes them a powerful tool for robotics applications. Modern NeRF training libraries can generate a photo-realistic NeRF from a static data set in just a few seconds, but are designed for offline use and require a slow pose optimization pre-computation step.   In this work we propose NerfBridge, an open-source bridge between the Robot Operating System (ROS) and the popular Nerfstudio library for real-time, online training of NeRFs from a stream of images. NerfBridge enables rapid development of research on applications of NeRFs in robotics by providing an extensible interface to the efficient training pipelines and model libraries provided by Nerfstudio. As an example use case we outline a hardware setup that can be used NerfBridge to train a NeRF from images captured by a camera mounted to a quadrotor in both indoor and outdoor environments.   For accompanying video https://youtu.be/EH0SLn-RcDg and code https://github.com/javieryu/nerf_bridge.
MV-Map: Offboard HD-Map Generation with Multi-view Consistency
While bird's-eye-view (BEV) perception models can be useful for building high-definition maps (HD-Maps) with less human labor, their results are often unreliable and demonstrate noticeable inconsistencies in the predicted HD-Maps from different viewpoints. This is because BEV perception is typically set up in an 'onboard' manner, which restricts the computation and consequently prevents algorithms from reasoning multiple views simultaneously. This paper overcomes these limitations and advocates a more practical 'offboard' HD-Map generation setup that removes the computation constraints, based on the fact that HD-Maps are commonly reusable infrastructures built offline in data centers. To this end, we propose a novel offboard pipeline called MV-Map that capitalizes multi-view consistency and can handle an arbitrary number of frames with the key design of a 'region-centric' framework. In MV-Map, the target HD-Maps are created by aggregating all the frames of onboard predictions, weighted by the confidence scores assigned by an 'uncertainty network'. To further enhance multi-view consistency, we augment the uncertainty network with the global 3D structure optimized by a voxelized neural radiance field (Voxel-NeRF). Extensive experiments on nuScenes show that our MV-Map significantly improves the quality of HD-Maps, further highlighting the importance of offboard methods for HD-Map generation.
Curvature-Aware Training for Coordinate Networks
Coordinate networks are widely used in computer vision due to their ability to represent signals as compressed, continuous entities. However, training these networks with first-order optimizers can be slow, hindering their use in real-time applications. Recent works have opted for shallow voxel-based representations to achieve faster training, but this sacrifices memory efficiency. This work proposes a solution that leverages second-order optimization methods to significantly reduce training times for coordinate networks while maintaining their compressibility. Experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach on various signal modalities, such as audio, images, videos, shape reconstruction, and neural radiance fields.
Inverse Rendering of Translucent Objects using Physical and Neural Renderers
In this work, we propose an inverse rendering model that estimates 3D shape, spatially-varying reflectance, homogeneous subsurface scattering parameters, and an environment illumination jointly from only a pair of captured images of a translucent object. In order to solve the ambiguity problem of inverse rendering, we use a physically-based renderer and a neural renderer for scene reconstruction and material editing. Because two renderers are differentiable, we can compute a reconstruction loss to assist parameter estimation. To enhance the supervision of the proposed neural renderer, we also propose an augmented loss. In addition, we use a flash and no-flash image pair as the input. To supervise the training, we constructed a large-scale synthetic dataset of translucent objects, which consists of 117K scenes. Qualitative and quantitative results on both synthetic and real-world datasets demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed model.
BundleRecon: Ray Bundle-Based 3D Neural Reconstruction
With the growing popularity of neural rendering, there has been an increasing number of neural implicit multi-view reconstruction methods. While many models have been enhanced in terms of positional encoding, sampling, rendering, and other aspects to improve the reconstruction quality, current methods do not fully leverage the information among neighboring pixels during the reconstruction process. To address this issue, we propose an enhanced model called BundleRecon. In the existing approaches, sampling is performed by a single ray that corresponds to a single pixel. In contrast, our model samples a patch of pixels using a bundle of rays, which incorporates information from neighboring pixels. Furthermore, we design bundle-based constraints to further improve the reconstruction quality. Experimental results demonstrate that BundleRecon is compatible with the existing neural implicit multi-view reconstruction methods and can improve their reconstruction quality.
SparseGNV: Generating Novel Views of Indoor Scenes with Sparse Input Views
We study to generate novel views of indoor scenes given sparse input views. The challenge is to achieve both photorealism and view consistency. We present SparseGNV: a learning framework that incorporates 3D structures and image generative models to generate novel views with three modules. The first module builds a neural point cloud as underlying geometry, providing contextual information and guidance for the target novel view. The second module utilizes a transformer-based network to map the scene context and the guidance into a shared latent space and autoregressively decodes the target view in the form of discrete image tokens. The third module reconstructs the tokens into the image of the target view. SparseGNV is trained across a large indoor scene dataset to learn generalizable priors. Once trained, it can efficiently generate novel views of an unseen indoor scene in a feed-forward manner. We evaluate SparseGNV on both real-world and synthetic indoor scenes and demonstrate that it outperforms state-of-the-art methods based on either neural radiance fields or conditional image generation.
HumanRF: High-Fidelity Neural Radiance Fields for Humans in Motion
Representing human performance at high-fidelity is an essential building block in diverse applications, such as film production, computer games or videoconferencing. To close the gap to production-level quality, we introduce HumanRF, a 4D dynamic neural scene representation that captures full-body appearance in motion from multi-view video input, and enables playback from novel, unseen viewpoints. Our novel representation acts as a dynamic video encoding that captures fine details at high compression rates by factorizing space-time into a temporal matrix-vector decomposition. This allows us to obtain temporally coherent reconstructions of human actors for long sequences, while representing high-resolution details even in the context of challenging motion. While most research focuses on synthesizing at resolutions of 4MP or lower, we address the challenge of operating at 12MP. To this end, we introduce ActorsHQ, a novel multi-view dataset that provides 12MP footage from 160 cameras for 16 sequences with high-fidelity, per-frame mesh reconstructions. We demonstrate challenges that emerge from using such high-resolution data and show that our newly introduced HumanRF effectively leverages this data, making a significant step towards production-level quality novel view synthesis.
Instant-NeRF: Instant On-Device Neural Radiance Field Training via Algorithm-Accelerator Co-Designed Near-Memory Processing
Instant on-device Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) are in growing demand for unleashing the promise of immersive AR/VR experiences, but are still limited by their prohibitive training time. Our profiling analysis reveals a memory-bound inefficiency in NeRF training. To tackle this inefficiency, near-memory processing (NMP) promises to be an effective solution, but also faces challenges due to the unique workloads of NeRFs, including the random hash table lookup, random point processing sequence, and heterogeneous bottleneck steps. Therefore, we propose the first NMP framework, Instant-NeRF, dedicated to enabling instant on-device NeRF training. Experiments on eight datasets consistently validate the effectiveness of Instant-NeRF.
NerfAcc: Efficient Sampling Accelerates NeRFs
Optimizing and rendering Neural Radiance Fields is computationally expensive due to the vast number of samples required by volume rendering. Recent works have included alternative sampling approaches to help accelerate their methods, however, they are often not the focus of the work. In this paper, we investigate and compare multiple sampling approaches and demonstrate that improved sampling is generally applicable across NeRF variants under an unified concept of transmittance estimator. To facilitate future experiments, we develop NerfAcc, a Python toolbox that provides flexible APIs for incorporating advanced sampling methods into NeRF related methods. We demonstrate its flexibility by showing that it can reduce the training time of several recent NeRF methods by 1.5x to 20x with minimal modifications to the existing codebase. Additionally, highly customized NeRFs, such as Instant-NGP, can be implemented in native PyTorch using NerfAcc.
HashCC: Lightweight Method to Improve the Quality of the Camera-less NeRF Scene Generation
Neural Radiance Fields has become a prominent method of scene generation via view synthesis. A critical requirement for the original algorithm to learn meaningful scene representation is camera pose information for each image in a data set. Current approaches try to circumnavigate this assumption with moderate success, by learning approximate camera positions alongside learning neural representations of a scene. This requires complicated camera models, causing a long and complicated training process, or results in a lack of texture and sharp details in rendered scenes. In this work we introduce Hash Color Correction (HashCC) -- a lightweight method for improving Neural Radiance Fields rendered image quality, applicable also in situations where camera positions for a given set of images are unknown.
Multi-Space Neural Radiance Fields
Existing Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) methods suffer from the existence of reflective objects, often resulting in blurry or distorted rendering. Instead of calculating a single radiance field, we propose a multi-space neural radiance field (MS-NeRF) that represents the scene using a group of feature fields in parallel sub-spaces, which leads to a better understanding of the neural network toward the existence of reflective and refractive objects. Our multi-space scheme works as an enhancement to existing NeRF methods, with only small computational overheads needed for training and inferring the extra-space outputs. We demonstrate the superiority and compatibility of our approach using three representative NeRF-based models, i.e., NeRF, Mip-NeRF, and Mip-NeRF 360. Comparisons are performed on a novelly constructed dataset consisting of 25 synthetic scenes and 7 real captured scenes with complex reflection and refraction, all having 360-degree viewpoints. Extensive experiments show that our approach significantly outperforms the existing single-space NeRF methods for rendering high-quality scenes concerned with complex light paths through mirror-like objects. Our code and dataset will be publicly available at https://zx-yin.github.io/msnerf.
Learn how to Prune Pixels for Multi-view Neural Image-based Synthesis
Image-based rendering techniques stand at the core of an immersive experience for the user, as they generate novel views given a set of multiple input images. Since they have shown good performance in terms of objective and subjective quality, the research community devotes great effort to their improvement. However, the large volume of data necessary to render at the receiver's side hinders applications in limited bandwidth environments or prevents their employment in real-time applications. We present LeHoPP, a method for input pixel pruning, where we examine the importance of each input pixel concerning the rendered view, and we avoid the use of irrelevant pixels. Even without retraining the image-based rendering network, our approach shows a good trade-off between synthesis quality and pixel rate. When tested in the general neural rendering framework, compared to other pruning baselines, LeHoPP gains between $0.9$ dB and $3.6$ dB on average.
General Neural Gauge Fields
The recent advance of neural fields, such as neural radiance fields, has significantly pushed the boundary of scene representation learning. Aiming to boost the computation efficiency and rendering quality of 3D scenes, a popular line of research maps the 3D coordinate system to another measuring system, e.g., 2D manifolds and hash tables, for modeling neural fields. The conversion of coordinate systems can be typically dubbed as gauge transformation, which is usually a pre-defined mapping function, e.g., orthogonal projection or spatial hash function. This begs a question: can we directly learn a desired gauge transformation along with the neural field in an end-to-end manner? In this work, we extend this problem to a general paradigm with a taxonomy of discrete & continuous cases, and develop an end-to-end learning framework to jointly optimize the gauge transformation and neural fields. To counter the problem that the learning of gauge transformations can collapse easily, we derive a general regularization mechanism from the principle of information conservation during the gauge transformation. To circumvent the high computation cost in gauge learning with regularization, we directly derive an information-invariant gauge transformation which allows to preserve scene information inherently and yield superior performance.
NeRF-QA: Neural Radiance Fields Quality Assessment Database
This short paper proposes a new database - NeRF-QA - containing 48 videos synthesized with seven NeRF based methods, along with their perceived quality scores, resulting from subjective assessment tests; for the videos selection, both real and synthetic, 360 degrees scenes were considered. This database will allow to evaluate the suitability, to NeRF based synthesized views, of existing objective quality metrics and also the development of new quality metrics, specific for this case.
NeuralEditor: Editing Neural Radiance Fields via Manipulating Point Clouds
This paper proposes NeuralEditor that enables neural radiance fields (NeRFs) natively editable for general shape editing tasks. Despite their impressive results on novel-view synthesis, it remains a fundamental challenge for NeRFs to edit the shape of the scene. Our key insight is to exploit the explicit point cloud representation as the underlying structure to construct NeRFs, inspired by the intuitive interpretation of NeRF rendering as a process that projects or "plots" the associated 3D point cloud to a 2D image plane. To this end, NeuralEditor introduces a novel rendering scheme based on deterministic integration within K-D tree-guided density-adaptive voxels, which produces both high-quality rendering results and precise point clouds through optimization. NeuralEditor then performs shape editing via mapping associated points between point clouds. Extensive evaluation shows that NeuralEditor achieves state-of-the-art performance in both shape deformation and scene morphing tasks. Notably, NeuralEditor supports both zero-shot inference and further fine-tuning over the edited scene. Our code, benchmark, and demo video are available at https://immortalco.github.io/NeuralEditor.
Single-Shot Implicit Morphable Faces with Consistent Texture Parameterization
There is a growing demand for the accessible creation of high-quality 3D avatars that are animatable and customizable. Although 3D morphable models provide intuitive control for editing and animation, and robustness for single-view face reconstruction, they cannot easily capture geometric and appearance details. Methods based on neural implicit representations, such as signed distance functions (SDF) or neural radiance fields, approach photo-realism, but are difficult to animate and do not generalize well to unseen data. To tackle this problem, we propose a novel method for constructing implicit 3D morphable face models that are both generalizable and intuitive for editing. Trained from a collection of high-quality 3D scans, our face model is parameterized by geometry, expression, and texture latent codes with a learned SDF and explicit UV texture parameterization. Once trained, we can reconstruct an avatar from a single in-the-wild image by leveraging the learned prior to project the image into the latent space of our model. Our implicit morphable face models can be used to render an avatar from novel views, animate facial expressions by modifying expression codes, and edit textures by directly painting on the learned UV-texture maps. We demonstrate quantitatively and qualitatively that our method improves upon photo-realism, geometry, and expression accuracy compared to state-of-the-art methods.
NeRSemble: Multi-view Radiance Field Reconstruction of Human Heads
We focus on reconstructing high-fidelity radiance fields of human heads, capturing their animations over time, and synthesizing re-renderings from novel viewpoints at arbitrary time steps. To this end, we propose a new multi-view capture setup composed of 16 calibrated machine vision cameras that record time-synchronized images at 7.1 MP resolution and 73 frames per second. With our setup, we collect a new dataset of over 4700 high-resolution, high-framerate sequences of more than 220 human heads, from which we introduce a new human head reconstruction benchmark. The recorded sequences cover a wide range of facial dynamics, including head motions, natural expressions, emotions, and spoken language. In order to reconstruct high-fidelity human heads, we propose Dynamic Neural Radiance Fields using Hash Ensembles (NeRSemble). We represent scene dynamics by combining a deformation field and an ensemble of 3D multi-resolution hash encodings. The deformation field allows for precise modeling of simple scene movements, while the ensemble of hash encodings helps to represent complex dynamics. As a result, we obtain radiance field representations of human heads that capture motion over time and facilitate re-rendering of arbitrary novel viewpoints. In a series of experiments, we explore the design choices of our method and demonstrate that our approach outperforms state-of-the-art dynamic radiance field approaches by a significant margin.
Semantic-aware Generation of Multi-view Portrait Drawings
Neural radiance fields (NeRF) based methods have shown amazing performance in synthesizing 3D-consistent photographic images, but fail to generate multi-view portrait drawings. The key is that the basic assumption of these methods -- a surface point is consistent when rendered from different views -- doesn't hold for drawings. In a portrait drawing, the appearance of a facial point may changes when viewed from different angles. Besides, portrait drawings usually present little 3D information and suffer from insufficient training data. To combat this challenge, in this paper, we propose a Semantic-Aware GEnerator (SAGE) for synthesizing multi-view portrait drawings. Our motivation is that facial semantic labels are view-consistent and correlate with drawing techniques. We therefore propose to collaboratively synthesize multi-view semantic maps and the corresponding portrait drawings. To facilitate training, we design a semantic-aware domain translator, which generates portrait drawings based on features of photographic faces. In addition, use data augmentation via synthesis to mitigate collapsed results. We apply SAGE to synthesize multi-view portrait drawings in diverse artistic styles. Experimental results show that SAGE achieves significantly superior or highly competitive performance, compared to existing 3D-aware image synthesis methods. The codes are available at https://github.com/AiArt-HDU/SAGE.
Shap-E: Generating Conditional 3D Implicit Functions
We present Shap-E, a conditional generative model for 3D assets. Unlike recent work on 3D generative models which produce a single output representation, Shap-E directly generates the parameters of implicit functions that can be rendered as both textured meshes and neural radiance fields. We train Shap-E in two stages: first, we train an encoder that deterministically maps 3D assets into the parameters of an implicit function; second, we train a conditional diffusion model on outputs of the encoder. When trained on a large dataset of paired 3D and text data, our resulting models are capable of generating complex and diverse 3D assets in a matter of seconds. When compared to Point-E, an explicit generative model over point clouds, Shap-E converges faster and reaches comparable or better sample quality despite modeling a higher-dimensional, multi-representation output space. We release model weights, inference code, and samples at https://github.com/openai/shap-e.
Real-Time Radiance Fields for Single-Image Portrait View Synthesis
We present a one-shot method to infer and render a photorealistic 3D representation from a single unposed image (e.g., face portrait) in real-time. Given a single RGB input, our image encoder directly predicts a canonical triplane representation of a neural radiance field for 3D-aware novel view synthesis via volume rendering. Our method is fast (24 fps) on consumer hardware, and produces higher quality results than strong GAN-inversion baselines that require test-time optimization. To train our triplane encoder pipeline, we use only synthetic data, showing how to distill the knowledge from a pretrained 3D GAN into a feedforward encoder. Technical contributions include a Vision Transformer-based triplane encoder, a camera data augmentation strategy, and a well-designed loss function for synthetic data training. We benchmark against the state-of-the-art methods, demonstrating significant improvements in robustness and image quality in challenging real-world settings. We showcase our results on portraits of faces (FFHQ) and cats (AFHQ), but our algorithm can also be applied in the future to other categories with a 3D-aware image generator.
ScatterNeRF: Seeing Through Fog with Physically-Based Inverse Neural Rendering
Vision in adverse weather conditions, whether it be snow, rain, or fog is challenging. In these scenarios, scattering and attenuation severly degrades image quality. Handling such inclement weather conditions, however, is essential to operate autonomous vehicles, drones and robotic applications where human performance is impeded the most. A large body of work explores removing weather-induced image degradations with dehazing methods. Most methods rely on single images as input and struggle to generalize from synthetic fully-supervised training approaches or to generate high fidelity results from unpaired real-world datasets. With data as bottleneck and most of today's training data relying on good weather conditions with inclement weather as outlier, we rely on an inverse rendering approach to reconstruct the scene content. We introduce ScatterNeRF, a neural rendering method which adequately renders foggy scenes and decomposes the fog-free background from the participating media-exploiting the multiple views from a short automotive sequence without the need for a large training data corpus. Instead, the rendering approach is optimized on the multi-view scene itself, which can be typically captured by an autonomous vehicle, robot or drone during operation. Specifically, we propose a disentangled representation for the scattering volume and the scene objects, and learn the scene reconstruction with physics-inspired losses. We validate our method by capturing multi-view In-the-Wild data and controlled captures in a large-scale fog chamber.
Federated Neural Radiance Fields
The ability of neural radiance fields or NeRFs to conduct accurate 3D modelling has motivated application of the technique to scene representation. Previous approaches have mainly followed a centralised learning paradigm, which assumes that all training images are available on one compute node for training. In this paper, we consider training NeRFs in a federated manner, whereby multiple compute nodes, each having acquired a distinct set of observations of the overall scene, learn a common NeRF in parallel. This supports the scenario of cooperatively modelling a scene using multiple agents. Our contribution is the first federated learning algorithm for NeRF, which splits the training effort across multiple compute nodes and obviates the need to pool the images at a central node. A technique based on low-rank decomposition of NeRF layers is introduced to reduce bandwidth consumption to transmit the model parameters for aggregation. Transferring compressed models instead of the raw data also contributes to the privacy of the data collecting agents.
GeneFace++: Generalized and Stable Real-Time Audio-Driven 3D Talking Face Generation
Generating talking person portraits with arbitrary speech audio is a crucial problem in the field of digital human and metaverse. A modern talking face generation method is expected to achieve the goals of generalized audio-lip synchronization, good video quality, and high system efficiency. Recently, neural radiance field (NeRF) has become a popular rendering technique in this field since it could achieve high-fidelity and 3D-consistent talking face generation with a few-minute-long training video. However, there still exist several challenges for NeRF-based methods: 1) as for the lip synchronization, it is hard to generate a long facial motion sequence of high temporal consistency and audio-lip accuracy; 2) as for the video quality, due to the limited data used to train the renderer, it is vulnerable to out-of-domain input condition and produce bad rendering results occasionally; 3) as for the system efficiency, the slow training and inference speed of the vanilla NeRF severely obstruct its usage in real-world applications. In this paper, we propose GeneFace++ to handle these challenges by 1) utilizing the pitch contour as an auxiliary feature and introducing a temporal loss in the facial motion prediction process; 2) proposing a landmark locally linear embedding method to regulate the outliers in the predicted motion sequence to avoid robustness issues; 3) designing a computationally efficient NeRF-based motion-to-video renderer to achieves fast training and real-time inference. With these settings, GeneFace++ becomes the first NeRF-based method that achieves stable and real-time talking face generation with generalized audio-lip synchronization. Extensive experiments show that our method outperforms state-of-the-art baselines in terms of subjective and objective evaluation. Video samples are available at https://genefaceplusplus.github.io .
Unsupervised Object-Centric Voxelization for Dynamic Scene Understanding
Understanding the compositional dynamics of multiple objects in unsupervised visual environments is challenging, and existing object-centric representation learning methods often ignore 3D consistency in scene decomposition. We propose DynaVol, an inverse graphics approach that learns object-centric volumetric representations in a neural rendering framework. DynaVol maintains time-varying 3D voxel grids that explicitly represent the probability of each spatial location belonging to different objects, and decouple temporal dynamics and spatial information by learning a canonical-space deformation field. To optimize the volumetric features, we embed them into a fully differentiable neural network, binding them to object-centric global features and then driving a compositional NeRF for scene reconstruction. DynaVol outperforms existing methods in novel view synthesis and unsupervised scene decomposition and allows for the editing of dynamic scenes, such as adding, deleting, replacing objects, and modifying their trajectories.
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs): A Review and Some Recent Developments
Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) is a framework that represents a 3D scene in the weights of a fully connected neural network, known as the Multi-Layer Perception(MLP). The method was introduced for the task of novel view synthesis and is able to achieve state-of-the-art photorealistic image renderings from a given continuous viewpoint. NeRFs have become a popular field of research as recent developments have been made that expand the performance and capabilities of the base framework. Recent developments include methods that require less images to train the model for view synthesis as well as methods that are able to generate views from unconstrained and dynamic scene representations.
ViP-NeRF: Visibility Prior for Sparse Input Neural Radiance Fields
Neural radiance fields (NeRF) have achieved impressive performances in view synthesis by encoding neural representations of a scene. However, NeRFs require hundreds of images per scene to synthesize photo-realistic novel views. Training them on sparse input views leads to overfitting and incorrect scene depth estimation resulting in artifacts in the rendered novel views. Sparse input NeRFs were recently regularized by providing dense depth estimated from pre-trained networks as supervision, to achieve improved performance over sparse depth constraints. However, we find that such depth priors may be inaccurate due to generalization issues. Instead, we hypothesize that the visibility of pixels in different input views can be more reliably estimated to provide dense supervision. In this regard, we compute a visibility prior through the use of plane sweep volumes, which does not require any pre-training. By regularizing the NeRF training with the visibility prior, we successfully train the NeRF with few input views. We reformulate the NeRF to also directly output the visibility of a 3D point from a given viewpoint to reduce the training time with the visibility constraint. On multiple datasets, our model outperforms the competing sparse input NeRF models including those that use learned priors. The source code for our model can be found on our project page: https://nagabhushansn95.github.io/publications/2023/ViP-NeRF.html.
NeRF-LiDAR: Generating Realistic LiDAR Point Clouds with Neural Radiance Fields
Labeling LiDAR point clouds for training autonomous driving is extremely expensive and difficult. LiDAR simulation aims at generating realistic LiDAR data with labels for training and verifying self-driving algorithms more efficiently. Recently, Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have been proposed for novel view synthesis using implicit reconstruction of 3D scenes. Inspired by this, we present NeRF-LIDAR, a novel LiDAR simulation method that leverages real-world information to generate realistic LIDAR point clouds. Different from existing LiDAR simulators, we use real images and point cloud data collected by self-driving cars to learn the 3D scene representation, point cloud generation and label rendering. We verify the effectiveness of our NeRF-LiDAR by training different 3D segmentation models on the generated LiDAR point clouds. It reveals that the trained models are able to achieve similar accuracy when compared with the same model trained on the real LiDAR data. Besides, the generated data is capable of boosting the accuracy through pre-training which helps reduce the requirements of the real labeled data.
Learning a Diffusion Prior for NeRFs
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) have emerged as a powerful neural 3D representation for objects and scenes derived from 2D data. Generating NeRFs, however, remains difficult in many scenarios. For instance, training a NeRF with only a small number of views as supervision remains challenging since it is an under-constrained problem. In such settings, it calls for some inductive prior to filter out bad local minima. One way to introduce such inductive priors is to learn a generative model for NeRFs modeling a certain class of scenes. In this paper, we propose to use a diffusion model to generate NeRFs encoded on a regularized grid. We show that our model can sample realistic NeRFs, while at the same time allowing conditional generations, given a certain observation as guidance.
Combining HoloLens with Instant-NeRFs: Advanced Real-Time 3D Mobile Mapping
This work represents a large step into modern ways of fast 3D reconstruction based on RGB camera images. Utilizing a Microsoft HoloLens 2 as a multisensor platform that includes an RGB camera and an inertial measurement unit for SLAM-based camera-pose determination, we train a Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) as a neural scene representation in real-time with the acquired data from the HoloLens. The HoloLens is connected via Wifi to a high-performance PC that is responsible for the training and 3D reconstruction. After the data stream ends, the training is stopped and the 3D reconstruction is initiated, which extracts a point cloud of the scene. With our specialized inference algorithm, five million scene points can be extracted within 1 second. In addition, the point cloud also includes radiometry per point. Our method of 3D reconstruction outperforms grid point sampling with NeRFs by multiple orders of magnitude and can be regarded as a complete real-time 3D reconstruction method in a mobile mapping setup.
Compositional 3D Human-Object Neural Animation
Human-object interactions (HOIs) are crucial for human-centric scene understanding applications such as human-centric visual generation, AR/VR, and robotics. Since existing methods mainly explore capturing HOIs, rendering HOI remains less investigated. In this paper, we address this challenge in HOI animation from a compositional perspective, i.e., animating novel HOIs including novel interaction, novel human and/or novel object driven by a novel pose sequence. Specifically, we adopt neural human-object deformation to model and render HOI dynamics based on implicit neural representations. To enable the interaction pose transferring among different persons and objects, we then devise a new compositional conditional neural radiance field (or CC-NeRF), which decomposes the interdependence between human and object using latent codes to enable compositionally animation control of novel HOIs. Experiments show that the proposed method can generalize well to various novel HOI animation settings. Our project page is https://zhihou7.github.io/CHONA/
ContraNeRF: 3D-Aware Generative Model via Contrastive Learning with Unsupervised Implicit Pose Embedding
Although 3D-aware GANs based on neural radiance fields have achieved competitive performance, their applicability is still limited to objects or scenes with the ground-truths or prediction models for clearly defined canonical camera poses. To extend the scope of applicable datasets, we propose a novel 3D-aware GAN optimization technique through contrastive learning with implicit pose embeddings. To this end, we first revise the discriminator design and remove dependency on ground-truth camera poses. Then, to capture complex and challenging 3D scene structures more effectively, we make the discriminator estimate a high-dimensional implicit pose embedding from a given image and perform contrastive learning on the pose embedding. The proposed approach can be employed for the dataset, where the canonical camera pose is ill-defined because it does not look up or estimate camera poses. Experimental results show that our algorithm outperforms existing methods by large margins on the datasets with multiple object categories and inconsistent canonical camera poses.
Super-NeRF: View-consistent Detail Generation for NeRF super-resolution
The neural radiance field (NeRF) achieved remarkable success in modeling 3D scenes and synthesizing high-fidelity novel views. However, existing NeRF-based methods focus more on the make full use of the image resolution to generate novel views, but less considering the generation of details under the limited input resolution. In analogy to the extensive usage of image super-resolution, NeRF super-resolution is an effective way to generate the high-resolution implicit representation of 3D scenes and holds great potential applications. Up to now, such an important topic is still under-explored. In this paper, we propose a NeRF super-resolution method, named Super-NeRF, to generate high-resolution NeRF from only low-resolution inputs. Given multi-view low-resolution images, Super-NeRF constructs a consistency-controlling super-resolution module to generate view-consistent high-resolution details for NeRF. Specifically, an optimizable latent code is introduced for each low-resolution input image to control the 2D super-resolution images to converge to the view-consistent output. The latent codes of each low-resolution image are optimized synergistically with the target Super-NeRF representation to fully utilize the view consistency constraint inherent in NeRF construction. We verify the effectiveness of Super-NeRF on synthetic, real-world, and AI-generated NeRF datasets. Super-NeRF achieves state-of-the-art NeRF super-resolution performance on high-resolution detail generation and cross-view consistency.
VGOS: Voxel Grid Optimization for View Synthesis from Sparse Inputs
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) has shown great success in novel view synthesis due to its state-of-the-art quality and flexibility. However, NeRF requires dense input views (tens to hundreds) and a long training time (hours to days) for a single scene to generate high-fidelity images. Although using the voxel grids to represent the radiance field can significantly accelerate the optimization process, we observe that for sparse inputs, the voxel grids are more prone to overfitting to the training views and will have holes and floaters, which leads to artifacts. In this paper, we propose VGOS, an approach for fast (3-5 minutes) radiance field reconstruction from sparse inputs (3-10 views) to address these issues. To improve the performance of voxel-based radiance field in sparse input scenarios, we propose two methods: (a) We introduce an incremental voxel training strategy, which prevents overfitting by suppressing the optimization of peripheral voxels in the early stage of reconstruction. (b) We use several regularization techniques to smooth the voxels, which avoids degenerate solutions. Experiments demonstrate that VGOS achieves state-of-the-art performance for sparse inputs with super-fast convergence. Code will be available at https://github.com/SJoJoK/VGOS.
Local Implicit Ray Function for Generalizable Radiance Field Representation
We propose LIRF (Local Implicit Ray Function), a generalizable neural rendering approach for novel view rendering. Current generalizable neural radiance fields (NeRF) methods sample a scene with a single ray per pixel and may therefore render blurred or aliased views when the input views and rendered views capture scene content with different resolutions. To solve this problem, we propose LIRF to aggregate the information from conical frustums to construct a ray. Given 3D positions within conical frustums, LIRF takes 3D coordinates and the features of conical frustums as inputs and predicts a local volumetric radiance field. Since the coordinates are continuous, LIRF renders high-quality novel views at a continuously-valued scale via volume rendering. Besides, we predict the visible weights for each input view via transformer-based feature matching to improve the performance in occluded areas. Experimental results on real-world scenes validate that our method outperforms state-of-the-art methods on novel view rendering of unseen scenes at arbitrary scales.
Hybrid Neural Rendering for Large-Scale Scenes with Motion Blur
Rendering novel view images is highly desirable for many applications. Despite recent progress, it remains challenging to render high-fidelity and view-consistent novel views of large-scale scenes from in-the-wild images with inevitable artifacts (e.g., motion blur). To this end, we develop a hybrid neural rendering model that makes image-based representation and neural 3D representation join forces to render high-quality, view-consistent images. Besides, images captured in the wild inevitably contain artifacts, such as motion blur, which deteriorates the quality of rendered images. Accordingly, we propose strategies to simulate blur effects on the rendered images to mitigate the negative influence of blurriness images and reduce their importance during training based on precomputed quality-aware weights. Extensive experiments on real and synthetic data demonstrate our model surpasses state-of-the-art point-based methods for novel view synthesis. The code is available at https://daipengwa.github.io/Hybrid-Rendering-ProjectPage.
MF-NeRF: Memory Efficient NeRF with Mixed-Feature Hash Table
Neural radiance field (NeRF) has shown remarkable performance in generating photo-realistic novel views. Since the emergence of NeRF, many studies have been conducted, among which managing features with explicit structures such as grids has achieved exceptionally fast training by reducing the complexity of multilayer perceptron (MLP) networks. However, storing features in dense grids requires significantly large memory space, which leads to memory bottleneck in computer systems and thus large training time. To address this issue, in this work, we propose MF-NeRF, a memory-efficient NeRF framework that employs a mixed-feature hash table to improve memory efficiency and reduce training time while maintaining reconstruction quality. We first design a mixed-feature hash table to adaptively mix part of multi-level feature grids into one and map it to a single hash table. Following that, in order to obtain the correct index of a grid point, we further design an index transformation method that transforms indices of an arbitrary level grid to those of a canonical grid. Extensive experiments benchmarking with state-of-the-art Instant-NGP, TensoRF, and DVGO, indicate our MF-NeRF could achieve the fastest training time on the same GPU hardware with similar or even higher reconstruction quality. Source code is available at https://github.com/nfyfamr/MF-NeRF.
Instant-3D: Instant Neural Radiance Field Training Towards On-Device AR/VR 3D Reconstruction
Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) based 3D reconstruction is highly desirable for immersive Augmented and Virtual Reality (AR/VR) applications, but achieving instant (i.e., < 5 seconds) on-device NeRF training remains a challenge. In this work, we first identify the inefficiency bottleneck: the need to interpolate NeRF embeddings up to 200,000 times from a 3D embedding grid during each training iteration. To alleviate this, we propose Instant-3D, an algorithm-hardware co-design acceleration framework that achieves instant on-device NeRF training. Our algorithm decomposes the embedding grid representation in terms of color and density, enabling computational redundancy to be squeezed out by adopting different (1) grid sizes and (2) update frequencies for the color and density branches. Our hardware accelerator further reduces the dominant memory accesses for embedding grid interpolation by (1) mapping multiple nearby points' memory read requests into one during the feed-forward process, (2) merging embedding grid updates from the same sliding time window during back-propagation, and (3) fusing different computation cores to support the different grid sizes needed by the color and density branches of Instant-3D algorithm. Extensive experiments validate the effectiveness of Instant-3D, achieving a large training time reduction of 41x - 248x while maintaining the same reconstruction quality. Excitingly, Instant-3D has enabled instant 3D reconstruction for AR/VR, requiring a reconstruction time of only 1.6 seconds per scene and meeting the AR/VR power consumption constraint of 1.9 W.
TextMesh: Generation of Realistic 3D Meshes From Text Prompts
The ability to generate highly realistic 2D images from mere text prompts has recently made huge progress in terms of speed and quality, thanks to the advent of image diffusion models. Naturally, the question arises if this can be also achieved in the generation of 3D content from such text prompts. To this end, a new line of methods recently emerged trying to harness diffusion models, trained on 2D images, for supervision of 3D model generation using view dependent prompts. While achieving impressive results, these methods, however, have two major drawbacks. First, rather than commonly used 3D meshes, they instead generate neural radiance fields (NeRFs), making them impractical for most real applications. Second, these approaches tend to produce over-saturated models, giving the output a cartoonish looking effect. Therefore, in this work we propose a novel method for generation of highly realistic-looking 3D meshes. To this end, we extend NeRF to employ an SDF backbone, leading to improved 3D mesh extraction. In addition, we propose a novel way to finetune the mesh texture, removing the effect of high saturation and improving the details of the output 3D mesh.
Pointersect: Neural Rendering with Cloud-Ray Intersection
We propose a novel method that renders point clouds as if they are surfaces. The proposed method is differentiable and requires no scene-specific optimization. This unique capability enables, out-of-the-box, surface normal estimation, rendering room-scale point clouds, inverse rendering, and ray tracing with global illumination. Unlike existing work that focuses on converting point clouds to other representations--e.g., surfaces or implicit functions--our key idea is to directly infer the intersection of a light ray with the underlying surface represented by the given point cloud. Specifically, we train a set transformer that, given a small number of local neighbor points along a light ray, provides the intersection point, the surface normal, and the material blending weights, which are used to render the outcome of this light ray. Localizing the problem into small neighborhoods enables us to train a model with only 48 meshes and apply it to unseen point clouds. Our model achieves higher estimation accuracy than state-of-the-art surface reconstruction and point-cloud rendering methods on three test sets. When applied to room-scale point clouds, without any scene-specific optimization, the model achieves competitive quality with the state-of-the-art novel-view rendering methods. Moreover, we demonstrate ability to render and manipulate Lidar-scanned point clouds such as lighting control and object insertion.
Segment Anything in 3D with NeRFs
Recently, the Segment Anything Model (SAM) emerged as a powerful vision foundation model which is capable to segment anything in 2D images. This paper aims to generalize SAM to segment 3D objects. Rather than replicating the data acquisition and annotation procedure which is costly in 3D, we design an efficient solution, leveraging the Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) as a cheap and off-the-shelf prior that connects multi-view 2D images to the 3D space. We refer to the proposed solution as SA3D, for Segment Anything in 3D. It is only required to provide a manual segmentation prompt (e.g., rough points) for the target object in a single view, which is used to generate its 2D mask in this view with SAM. Next, SA3D alternately performs mask inverse rendering and cross-view self-prompting across various views to iteratively complete the 3D mask of the target object constructed with voxel grids. The former projects the 2D mask obtained by SAM in the current view onto 3D mask with guidance of the density distribution learned by the NeRF; The latter extracts reliable prompts automatically as the input to SAM from the NeRF-rendered 2D mask in another view. We show in experiments that SA3D adapts to various scenes and achieves 3D segmentation within minutes. Our research offers a generic and efficient methodology to lift a 2D vision foundation model to 3D, as long as the 2D model can steadily address promptable segmentation across multiple views. The project page is at https://jumpat.github.io/SA3D/.
Explicit Correspondence Matching for Generalizable Neural Radiance Fields
We present a new generalizable NeRF method that is able to directly generalize to new unseen scenarios and perform novel view synthesis with as few as two source views. The key to our approach lies in the explicitly modeled correspondence matching information, so as to provide the geometry prior to the prediction of NeRF color and density for volume rendering. The explicit correspondence matching is quantified with the cosine similarity between image features sampled at the 2D projections of a 3D point on different views, which is able to provide reliable cues about the surface geometry. Unlike previous methods where image features are extracted independently for each view, we consider modeling the cross-view interactions via Transformer cross-attention, which greatly improves the feature matching quality. Our method achieves state-of-the-art results on different evaluation settings, with the experiments showing a strong correlation between our learned cosine feature similarity and volume density, demonstrating the effectiveness and superiority of our proposed method. Code is at https://github.com/donydchen/matchnerf
HOSNeRF: Dynamic Human-Object-Scene Neural Radiance Fields from a Single Video
We introduce HOSNeRF, a novel 360{\deg} free-viewpoint rendering method that reconstructs neural radiance fields for dynamic human-object-scene from a single monocular in-the-wild video. Our method enables pausing the video at any frame and rendering all scene details (dynamic humans, objects, and backgrounds) from arbitrary viewpoints. The first challenge in this task is the complex object motions in human-object interactions, which we tackle by introducing the new object bones into the conventional human skeleton hierarchy to effectively estimate large object deformations in our dynamic human-object model. The second challenge is that humans interact with different objects at different times, for which we introduce two new learnable object state embeddings that can be used as conditions for learning our human-object representation and scene representation, respectively. Extensive experiments show that HOSNeRF significantly outperforms SOTA approaches on two challenging datasets by a large margin of 40% ~ 50% in terms of LPIPS. The code, data, and compelling examples of 360{\deg} free-viewpoint renderings from single videos will be released in https://showlab.github.io/HOSNeRF.
Gen-NeRF: Efficient and Generalizable Neural Radiance Fields via Algorithm-Hardware Co-Design
Novel view synthesis is an essential functionality for enabling immersive experiences in various Augmented- and Virtual-Reality (AR/VR) applications, for which generalizable Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) have gained increasing popularity thanks to their cross-scene generalization capability. Despite their promise, the real-device deployment of generalizable NeRFs is bottlenecked by their prohibitive complexity due to the required massive memory accesses to acquire scene features, causing their ray marching process to be memory-bounded. To this end, we propose Gen-NeRF, an algorithm-hardware co-design framework dedicated to generalizable NeRF acceleration, which for the first time enables real-time generalizable NeRFs. On the algorithm side, Gen-NeRF integrates a coarse-then-focus sampling strategy, leveraging the fact that different regions of a 3D scene contribute differently to the rendered pixel, to enable sparse yet effective sampling. On the hardware side, Gen-NeRF highlights an accelerator micro-architecture to maximize the data reuse opportunities among different rays by making use of their epipolar geometric relationship. Furthermore, our Gen-NeRF accelerator features a customized dataflow to enhance data locality during point-to-hardware mapping and an optimized scene feature storage strategy to minimize memory bank conflicts. Extensive experiments validate the effectiveness of our proposed Gen-NeRF framework in enabling real-time and generalizable novel view synthesis.
3D-IntPhys: Towards More Generalized 3D-grounded Visual Intuitive Physics under Challenging Scenes
Given a visual scene, humans have strong intuitions about how a scene can evolve over time under given actions. The intuition, often termed visual intuitive physics, is a critical ability that allows us to make effective plans to manipulate the scene to achieve desired outcomes without relying on extensive trial and error. In this paper, we present a framework capable of learning 3D-grounded visual intuitive physics models from videos of complex scenes with fluids. Our method is composed of a conditional Neural Radiance Field (NeRF)-style visual frontend and a 3D point-based dynamics prediction backend, using which we can impose strong relational and structural inductive bias to capture the structure of the underlying environment. Unlike existing intuitive point-based dynamics works that rely on the supervision of dense point trajectory from simulators, we relax the requirements and only assume access to multi-view RGB images and (imperfect) instance masks acquired using color prior. This enables the proposed model to handle scenarios where accurate point estimation and tracking are hard or impossible. We generate datasets including three challenging scenarios involving fluid, granular materials, and rigid objects in the simulation. The datasets do not include any dense particle information so most previous 3D-based intuitive physics pipelines can barely deal with that. We show our model can make long-horizon future predictions by learning from raw images and significantly outperforms models that do not employ an explicit 3D representation space. We also show that once trained, our model can achieve strong generalization in complex scenarios under extrapolate settings.
Dehazing-NeRF: Neural Radiance Fields from Hazy Images
Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) has received much attention in recent years due to the impressively high quality in 3D scene reconstruction and novel view synthesis. However, image degradation caused by the scattering of atmospheric light and object light by particles in the atmosphere can significantly decrease the reconstruction quality when shooting scenes in hazy conditions. To address this issue, we propose Dehazing-NeRF, a method that can recover clear NeRF from hazy image inputs. Our method simulates the physical imaging process of hazy images using an atmospheric scattering model, and jointly learns the atmospheric scattering model and a clean NeRF model for both image dehazing and novel view synthesis. Different from previous approaches, Dehazing-NeRF is an unsupervised method with only hazy images as the input, and also does not rely on hand-designed dehazing priors. By jointly combining the depth estimated from the NeRF 3D scene with the atmospheric scattering model, our proposed model breaks through the ill-posed problem of single-image dehazing while maintaining geometric consistency. Besides, to alleviate the degradation of image quality caused by information loss, soft margin consistency regularization, as well as atmospheric consistency and contrast discriminative loss, are addressed during the model training process. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method outperforms the simple combination of single-image dehazing and NeRF on both image dehazing and novel view image synthesis.
AutoNeRF: Training Implicit Scene Representations with Autonomous Agents
Implicit representations such as Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have been shown to be very effective at novel view synthesis. However, these models typically require manual and careful human data collection for training. In this paper, we present AutoNeRF, a method to collect data required to train NeRFs using autonomous embodied agents. Our method allows an agent to explore an unseen environment efficiently and use the experience to build an implicit map representation autonomously. We compare the impact of different exploration strategies including handcrafted frontier-based exploration and modular approaches composed of trained high-level planners and classical low-level path followers. We train these models with different reward functions tailored to this problem and evaluate the quality of the learned representations on four different downstream tasks: classical viewpoint rendering, map reconstruction, planning, and pose refinement. Empirical results show that NeRFs can be trained on actively collected data using just a single episode of experience in an unseen environment, and can be used for several downstream robotic tasks, and that modular trained exploration models significantly outperform the classical baselines.
A Comparative Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) 3D Analysis of Camera Poses from HoloLens Trajectories and Structure from Motion
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) are trained using a set of camera poses and associated images as input to estimate density and color values for each position. The position-dependent density learning is of particular interest for photogrammetry, enabling 3D reconstruction by querying and filtering the NeRF coordinate system based on the object density. While traditional methods like Structure from Motion are commonly used for camera pose calculation in pre-processing for NeRFs, the HoloLens offers an interesting interface for extracting the required input data directly. We present a workflow for high-resolution 3D reconstructions almost directly from HoloLens data using NeRFs. Thereby, different investigations are considered: Internal camera poses from the HoloLens trajectory via a server application, and external camera poses from Structure from Motion, both with an enhanced variant applied through pose refinement. Results show that the internal camera poses lead to NeRF convergence with a PSNR of 25\,dB with a simple rotation around the x-axis and enable a 3D reconstruction. Pose refinement enables comparable quality compared to external camera poses, resulting in improved training process with a PSNR of 27\,dB and a better 3D reconstruction. Overall, NeRF reconstructions outperform the conventional photogrammetric dense reconstruction using Multi-View Stereo in terms of completeness and level of detail.
Learning Neural Duplex Radiance Fields for Real-Time View Synthesis
Neural radiance fields (NeRFs) enable novel view synthesis with unprecedented visual quality. However, to render photorealistic images, NeRFs require hundreds of deep multilayer perceptron (MLP) evaluations - for each pixel. This is prohibitively expensive and makes real-time rendering infeasible, even on powerful modern GPUs. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to distill and bake NeRFs into highly efficient mesh-based neural representations that are fully compatible with the massively parallel graphics rendering pipeline. We represent scenes as neural radiance features encoded on a two-layer duplex mesh, which effectively overcomes the inherent inaccuracies in 3D surface reconstruction by learning the aggregated radiance information from a reliable interval of ray-surface intersections. To exploit local geometric relationships of nearby pixels, we leverage screen-space convolutions instead of the MLPs used in NeRFs to achieve high-quality appearance. Finally, the performance of the whole framework is further boosted by a novel multi-view distillation optimization strategy. We demonstrate the effectiveness and superiority of our approach via extensive experiments on a range of standard datasets.
Nerfbusters: Removing Ghostly Artifacts from Casually Captured NeRFs
Casually captured Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) suffer from artifacts such as floaters or flawed geometry when rendered outside the camera trajectory. Existing evaluation protocols often do not capture these effects, since they usually only assess image quality at every 8th frame of the training capture. To push forward progress in novel-view synthesis, we propose a new dataset and evaluation procedure, where two camera trajectories are recorded of the scene: one used for training, and the other for evaluation. In this more challenging in-the-wild setting, we find that existing hand-crafted regularizers do not remove floaters nor improve scene geometry. Thus, we propose a 3D diffusion-based method that leverages local 3D priors and a novel density-based score distillation sampling loss to discourage artifacts during NeRF optimization. We show that this data-driven prior removes floaters and improves scene geometry for casual captures.
ReLight My NeRF: A Dataset for Novel View Synthesis and Relighting of Real World Objects
In this paper, we focus on the problem of rendering novel views from a Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) under unobserved light conditions. To this end, we introduce a novel dataset, dubbed ReNe (Relighting NeRF), framing real world objects under one-light-at-time (OLAT) conditions, annotated with accurate ground-truth camera and light poses. Our acquisition pipeline leverages two robotic arms holding, respectively, a camera and an omni-directional point-wise light source. We release a total of 20 scenes depicting a variety of objects with complex geometry and challenging materials. Each scene includes 2000 images, acquired from 50 different points of views under 40 different OLAT conditions. By leveraging the dataset, we perform an ablation study on the relighting capability of variants of the vanilla NeRF architecture and identify a lightweight architecture that can render novel views of an object under novel light conditions, which we use to establish a non-trivial baseline for the dataset. Dataset and benchmark are available at https://eyecan-ai.github.io/rene.
LiDAR-NeRF: Novel LiDAR View Synthesis via Neural Radiance Fields
We introduce a new task, novel view synthesis for LiDAR sensors. While traditional model-based LiDAR simulators with style-transfer neural networks can be applied to render novel views, they fall short in producing accurate and realistic LiDAR patterns, because the renderers they rely on exploit game engines, which are not differentiable. We address this by formulating, to the best of our knowledge, the first differentiable LiDAR renderer, and propose an end-to-end framework, LiDAR-NeRF, leveraging a neural radiance field (NeRF) to enable jointly learning the geometry and the attributes of 3D points. To evaluate the effectiveness of our approach, we establish an object-centric multi-view LiDAR dataset, dubbed NeRF-MVL. It contains observations of objects from 9 categories seen from 360-degree viewpoints captured with multiple LiDAR sensors. Our extensive experiments on the scene-level KITTI-360 dataset, and on our object-level NeRF-MVL show that our LiDAR- NeRF surpasses the model-based algorithms significantly.
NeUDF: Leaning Neural Unsigned Distance Fields with Volume Rendering
Multi-view shape reconstruction has achieved impressive progresses thanks to the latest advances in neural implicit surface rendering. However, existing methods based on signed distance function (SDF) are limited to closed surfaces, failing to reconstruct a wide range of real-world objects that contain open-surface structures. In this work, we introduce a new neural rendering framework, coded NeUDF, that can reconstruct surfaces with arbitrary topologies solely from multi-view supervision. To gain the flexibility of representing arbitrary surfaces, NeUDF leverages the unsigned distance function (UDF) as surface representation. While a naive extension of an SDF-based neural renderer cannot scale to UDF, we propose two new formulations of weight function specially tailored for UDF-based volume rendering. Furthermore, to cope with open surface rendering, where the in/out test is no longer valid, we present a dedicated normal regularization strategy to resolve the surface orientation ambiguity. We extensively evaluate our method over a number of challenging datasets, including DTU}, MGN, and Deep Fashion 3D. Experimental results demonstrate that nEudf can significantly outperform the state-of-the-art method in the task of multi-view surface reconstruction, especially for complex shapes with open boundaries.
Multiscale Representation for Real-Time Anti-Aliasing Neural Rendering
The rendering scheme in neural radiance field (NeRF) is effective in rendering a pixel by casting a ray into the scene. However, NeRF yields blurred rendering results when the training images are captured at non-uniform scales, and produces aliasing artifacts if the test images are taken in distant views. To address this issue, Mip-NeRF proposes a multiscale representation as a conical frustum to encode scale information. Nevertheless, this approach is only suitable for offline rendering since it relies on integrated positional encoding (IPE) to query a multilayer perceptron (MLP). To overcome this limitation, we propose mip voxel grids (Mip-VoG), an explicit multiscale representation with a deferred architecture for real-time anti-aliasing rendering. Our approach includes a density Mip-VoG for scene geometry and a feature Mip-VoG with a small MLP for view-dependent color. Mip-VoG encodes scene scale using the level of detail (LOD) derived from ray differentials and uses quadrilinear interpolation to map a queried 3D location to its features and density from two neighboring downsampled voxel grids. To our knowledge, our approach is the first to offer multiscale training and real-time anti-aliasing rendering simultaneously. We conducted experiments on multiscale datasets, and the results show that our approach outperforms state-of-the-art real-time rendering baselines.
Neural Radiance Fields: Past, Present, and Future
The various aspects like modeling and interpreting 3D environments and surroundings have enticed humans to progress their research in 3D Computer Vision, Computer Graphics, and Machine Learning. An attempt made by Mildenhall et al in their paper about NeRFs (Neural Radiance Fields) led to a boom in Computer Graphics, Robotics, Computer Vision, and the possible scope of High-Resolution Low Storage Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality-based 3D models have gained traction from res with more than 500 preprints related to NeRFs published. This paper serves as a bridge for people starting to study these fields by building on the basics of Mathematics, Geometry, Computer Vision, and Computer Graphics to the difficulties encountered in Implicit Representations at the intersection of all these disciplines. This survey provides the history of rendering, Implicit Learning, and NeRFs, the progression of research on NeRFs, and the potential applications and implications of NeRFs in today's world. In doing so, this survey categorizes all the NeRF-related research in terms of the datasets used, objective functions, applications solved, and evaluation criteria for these applications.
Tetra-NeRF: Representing Neural Radiance Fields Using Tetrahedra
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) are a very recent and very popular approach for the problems of novel view synthesis and 3D reconstruction. A popular scene representation used by NeRFs is to combine a uniform, voxel-based subdivision of the scene with an MLP. Based on the observation that a (sparse) point cloud of the scene is often available, this paper proposes to use an adaptive representation based on tetrahedra obtained by the Delaunay triangulation instead of the uniform subdivision or point-based representations. We show that such a representation enables efficient training and leads to state-of-the-art results. Our approach elegantly combines concepts from 3D geometry processing, triangle-based rendering, and modern neural radiance fields. Compared to voxel-based representations, ours provides more detail around parts of the scene likely to be close to the surface. Compared to point-based representations, our approach achieves better performance.
Anything-3D: Towards Single-view Anything Reconstruction in the Wild
3D reconstruction from a single-RGB image in unconstrained real-world scenarios presents numerous challenges due to the inherent diversity and complexity of objects and environments. In this paper, we introduce Anything-3D, a methodical framework that ingeniously combines a series of visual-language models and the Segment-Anything object segmentation model to elevate objects to 3D, yielding a reliable and versatile system for single-view conditioned 3D reconstruction task. Our approach employs a BLIP model to generate textural descriptions, utilizes the Segment-Anything model for the effective extraction of objects of interest, and leverages a text-to-image diffusion model to lift object into a neural radiance field. Demonstrating its ability to produce accurate and detailed 3D reconstructions for a wide array of objects, \emph{Anything-3D\footnotemark[2]} shows promise in addressing the limitations of existing methodologies. Through comprehensive experiments and evaluations on various datasets, we showcase the merits of our approach, underscoring its potential to contribute meaningfully to the field of 3D reconstruction. Demos and code will be available at \href{https://github.com/Anything-of-anything/Anything-3D}{https://github.com/Anything-of-anything/Anything-3D}.
Reference-guided Controllable Inpainting of Neural Radiance Fields
The popularity of Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) for view synthesis has led to a desire for NeRF editing tools. Here, we focus on inpainting regions in a view-consistent and controllable manner. In addition to the typical NeRF inputs and masks delineating the unwanted region in each view, we require only a single inpainted view of the scene, i.e., a reference view. We use monocular depth estimators to back-project the inpainted view to the correct 3D positions. Then, via a novel rendering technique, a bilateral solver can construct view-dependent effects in non-reference views, making the inpainted region appear consistent from any view. For non-reference disoccluded regions, which cannot be supervised by the single reference view, we devise a method based on image inpainters to guide both the geometry and appearance. Our approach shows superior performance to NeRF inpainting baselines, with the additional advantage that a user can control the generated scene via a single inpainted image. Project page: https://ashmrz.github.io/reference-guided-3d
SurfelNeRF: Neural Surfel Radiance Fields for Online Photorealistic Reconstruction of Indoor Scenes
Online reconstructing and rendering of large-scale indoor scenes is a long-standing challenge. SLAM-based methods can reconstruct 3D scene geometry progressively in real time but can not render photorealistic results. While NeRF-based methods produce promising novel view synthesis results, their long offline optimization time and lack of geometric constraints pose challenges to efficiently handling online input. Inspired by the complementary advantages of classical 3D reconstruction and NeRF, we thus investigate marrying explicit geometric representation with NeRF rendering to achieve efficient online reconstruction and high-quality rendering. We introduce SurfelNeRF, a variant of neural radiance field which employs a flexible and scalable neural surfel representation to store geometric attributes and extracted appearance features from input images. We further extend the conventional surfel-based fusion scheme to progressively integrate incoming input frames into the reconstructed global neural scene representation. In addition, we propose a highly-efficient differentiable rasterization scheme for rendering neural surfel radiance fields, which helps SurfelNeRF achieve $10\times$ speedups in training and inference time, respectively. Experimental results show that our method achieves the state-of-the-art 23.82 PSNR and 29.58 PSNR on ScanNet in feedforward inference and per-scene optimization settings, respectively.
NeAI: A Pre-convoluted Representation for Plug-and-Play Neural Ambient Illumination
Recent advances in implicit neural representation have demonstrated the ability to recover detailed geometry and material from multi-view images. However, the use of simplified lighting models such as environment maps to represent non-distant illumination, or using a network to fit indirect light modeling without a solid basis, can lead to an undesirable decomposition between lighting and material. To address this, we propose a fully differentiable framework named neural ambient illumination (NeAI) that uses Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) as a lighting model to handle complex lighting in a physically based way. Together with integral lobe encoding for roughness-adaptive specular lobe and leveraging the pre-convoluted background for accurate decomposition, the proposed method represents a significant step towards integrating physically based rendering into the NeRF representation. The experiments demonstrate the superior performance of novel-view rendering compared to previous works, and the capability to re-render objects under arbitrary NeRF-style environments opens up exciting possibilities for bridging the gap between virtual and real-world scenes. The project and supplementary materials are available at https://yiyuzhuang.github.io/NeAI/.
Looking Through the Glass: Neural Surface Reconstruction Against High Specular Reflections
Neural implicit methods have achieved high-quality 3D object surfaces under slight specular highlights. However, high specular reflections (HSR) often appear in front of target objects when we capture them through glasses. The complex ambiguity in these scenes violates the multi-view consistency, then makes it challenging for recent methods to reconstruct target objects correctly. To remedy this issue, we present a novel surface reconstruction framework, NeuS-HSR, based on implicit neural rendering. In NeuS-HSR, the object surface is parameterized as an implicit signed distance function (SDF). To reduce the interference of HSR, we propose decomposing the rendered image into two appearances: the target object and the auxiliary plane. We design a novel auxiliary plane module by combining physical assumptions and neural networks to generate the auxiliary plane appearance. Extensive experiments on synthetic and real-world datasets demonstrate that NeuS-HSR outperforms state-of-the-art approaches for accurate and robust target surface reconstruction against HSR. Code is available at https://github.com/JiaxiongQ/NeuS-HSR.
MoDA: Modeling Deformable 3D Objects from Casual Videos
In this paper, we focus on the challenges of modeling deformable 3D objects from casual videos. With the popularity of neural radiance fields (NeRF), many works extend it to dynamic scenes with a canonical NeRF and a deformation model that achieves 3D point transformation between the observation space and the canonical space. Recent works rely on linear blend skinning (LBS) to achieve the canonical-observation transformation. However, the linearly weighted combination of rigid transformation matrices is not guaranteed to be rigid. As a matter of fact, unexpected scale and shear factors often appear. In practice, using LBS as the deformation model can always lead to skin-collapsing artifacts for bending or twisting motions. To solve this problem, we propose neural dual quaternion blend skinning (NeuDBS) to achieve 3D point deformation, which can perform rigid transformation without skin-collapsing artifacts. In the endeavor to register 2D pixels across different frames, we establish a correspondence between canonical feature embeddings that encodes 3D points within the canonical space, and 2D image features by solving an optimal transport problem. Besides, we introduce a texture filtering approach for texture rendering that effectively minimizes the impact of noisy colors outside target deformable objects. Extensive experiments on real and synthetic datasets show that our approach can reconstruct 3D models for humans and animals with better qualitative and quantitative performance than state-of-the-art methods.
NeRF-Loc: Visual Localization with Conditional Neural Radiance Field
We propose a novel visual re-localization method based on direct matching between the implicit 3D descriptors and the 2D image with transformer. A conditional neural radiance field(NeRF) is chosen as the 3D scene representation in our pipeline, which supports continuous 3D descriptors generation and neural rendering. By unifying the feature matching and the scene coordinate regression to the same framework, our model learns both generalizable knowledge and scene prior respectively during two training stages. Furthermore, to improve the localization robustness when domain gap exists between training and testing phases, we propose an appearance adaptation layer to explicitly align styles between the 3D model and the query image. Experiments show that our method achieves higher localization accuracy than other learning-based approaches on multiple benchmarks. Code is available at \url{https://github.com/JenningsL/nerf-loc}.
Likelihood-Based Generative Radiance Field with Latent Space Energy-Based Model for 3D-Aware Disentangled Image Representation
We propose the NeRF-LEBM, a likelihood-based top-down 3D-aware 2D image generative model that incorporates 3D representation via Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) and 2D imaging process via differentiable volume rendering. The model represents an image as a rendering process from 3D object to 2D image and is conditioned on some latent variables that account for object characteristics and are assumed to follow informative trainable energy-based prior models. We propose two likelihood-based learning frameworks to train the NeRF-LEBM: (i) maximum likelihood estimation with Markov chain Monte Carlo-based inference and (ii) variational inference with the reparameterization trick. We study our models in the scenarios with both known and unknown camera poses. Experiments on several benchmark datasets demonstrate that the NeRF-LEBM can infer 3D object structures from 2D images, generate 2D images with novel views and objects, learn from incomplete 2D images, and learn from 2D images with known or unknown camera poses.
CAT-NeRF: Constancy-Aware Tx$^2$Former for Dynamic Body Modeling
This paper addresses the problem of human rendering in the video with temporal appearance constancy. Reconstructing dynamic body shapes with volumetric neural rendering methods, such as NeRF, requires finding the correspondence of the points in the canonical and observation space, which demands understanding human body shape and motion. Some methods use rigid transformation, such as SE(3), which cannot precisely model each frame's unique motion and muscle movements. Others generate the transformation for each frame with a trainable network, such as neural blend weight field or translation vector field, which does not consider the appearance constancy of general body shape. In this paper, we propose CAT-NeRF for self-awareness of appearance constancy with Tx$^2$Former, a novel way to combine two Transformer layers, to separate appearance constancy and uniqueness. Appearance constancy models the general shape across the video, and uniqueness models the unique patterns for each frame. We further introduce a novel Covariance Loss to limit the correlation between each pair of appearance uniquenesses to ensure the frame-unique pattern is maximally captured in appearance uniqueness. We assess our method on H36M and ZJU-MoCap and show state-of-the-art performance.
SeaThru-NeRF: Neural Radiance Fields in Scattering Media
Research on neural radiance fields (NeRFs) for novel view generation is exploding with new models and extensions. However, a question that remains unanswered is what happens in underwater or foggy scenes where the medium strongly influences the appearance of objects. Thus far, NeRF and its variants have ignored these cases. However, since the NeRF framework is based on volumetric rendering, it has inherent capability to account for the medium's effects, once modeled appropriately. We develop a new rendering model for NeRFs in scattering media, which is based on the SeaThru image formation model, and suggest a suitable architecture for learning both scene information and medium parameters. We demonstrate the strength of our method using simulated and real-world scenes, correctly rendering novel photorealistic views underwater. Even more excitingly, we can render clear views of these scenes, removing the medium between the camera and the scene and reconstructing the appearance and depth of far objects, which are severely occluded by the medium. Our code and unique datasets are available on the project's website.
UVA: Towards Unified Volumetric Avatar for View Synthesis, Pose rendering, Geometry and Texture Editing
Neural radiance field (NeRF) has become a popular 3D representation method for human avatar reconstruction due to its high-quality rendering capabilities, e.g., regarding novel views and poses. However, previous methods for editing the geometry and appearance of the avatar only allow for global editing through body shape parameters and 2D texture maps. In this paper, we propose a new approach named \textbf{U}nified \textbf{V}olumetric \textbf{A}vatar (\textbf{UVA}) that enables local and independent editing of both geometry and texture, while retaining the ability to render novel views and poses. UVA transforms each observation point to a canonical space using a skinning motion field and represents geometry and texture in separate neural fields. Each field is composed of a set of structured latent codes that are attached to anchor nodes on a deformable mesh in canonical space and diffused into the entire space via interpolation, allowing for local editing. To address spatial ambiguity in code interpolation, we use a local signed height indicator. We also replace the view-dependent radiance color with a pose-dependent shading factor to better represent surface illumination in different poses. Experiments on multiple human avatars demonstrate that our UVA achieves competitive results in novel view synthesis and novel pose rendering while enabling local and independent editing of geometry and appearance. The source code will be released.
Single-Stage Diffusion NeRF: A Unified Approach to 3D Generation and Reconstruction
3D-aware image synthesis encompasses a variety of tasks, such as scene generation and novel view synthesis from images. Despite numerous task-specific methods, developing a comprehensive model remains challenging. In this paper, we present SSDNeRF, a unified approach that employs an expressive diffusion model to learn a generalizable prior of neural radiance fields (NeRF) from multi-view images of diverse objects. Previous studies have used two-stage approaches that rely on pretrained NeRFs as real data to train diffusion models. In contrast, we propose a new single-stage training paradigm with an end-to-end objective that jointly optimizes a NeRF auto-decoder and a latent diffusion model, enabling simultaneous 3D reconstruction and prior learning, even from sparsely available views. At test time, we can directly sample the diffusion prior for unconditional generation, or combine it with arbitrary observations of unseen objects for NeRF reconstruction. SSDNeRF demonstrates robust results comparable to or better than leading task-specific methods in unconditional generation and single/sparse-view 3D reconstruction.
Zip-NeRF: Anti-Aliased Grid-Based Neural Radiance Fields
Neural Radiance Field training can be accelerated through the use of grid-based representations in NeRF's learned mapping from spatial coordinates to colors and volumetric density. However, these grid-based approaches lack an explicit understanding of scale and therefore often introduce aliasing, usually in the form of jaggies or missing scene content. Anti-aliasing has previously been addressed by mip-NeRF 360, which reasons about sub-volumes along a cone rather than points along a ray, but this approach is not natively compatible with current grid-based techniques. We show how ideas from rendering and signal processing can be used to construct a technique that combines mip-NeRF 360 and grid-based models such as Instant NGP to yield error rates that are 8% - 77% lower than either prior technique, and that trains 24x faster than mip-NeRF 360.
NeRFVS: Neural Radiance Fields for Free View Synthesis via Geometry Scaffolds
We present NeRFVS, a novel neural radiance fields (NeRF) based method to enable free navigation in a room. NeRF achieves impressive performance in rendering images for novel views similar to the input views while suffering for novel views that are significantly different from the training views. To address this issue, we utilize the holistic priors, including pseudo depth maps and view coverage information, from neural reconstruction to guide the learning of implicit neural representations of 3D indoor scenes. Concretely, an off-the-shelf neural reconstruction method is leveraged to generate a geometry scaffold. Then, two loss functions based on the holistic priors are proposed to improve the learning of NeRF: 1) A robust depth loss that can tolerate the error of the pseudo depth map to guide the geometry learning of NeRF; 2) A variance loss to regularize the variance of implicit neural representations to reduce the geometry and color ambiguity in the learning procedure. These two loss functions are modulated during NeRF optimization according to the view coverage information to reduce the negative influence brought by the view coverage imbalance. Extensive results demonstrate that our NeRFVS outperforms state-of-the-art view synthesis methods quantitatively and qualitatively on indoor scenes, achieving high-fidelity free navigation results.
RO-MAP: Real-Time Multi-Object Mapping with Neural Radiance Fields
Accurate perception of objects in the environment is important for improving the scene understanding capability of SLAM systems. In robotic and augmented reality applications, object maps with semantic and metric information show attractive advantages. In this paper, we present RO-MAP, a novel multi-object mapping pipeline that does not rely on 3D priors. Given only monocular input, we use neural radiance fields to represent objects and couple them with a lightweight object SLAM based on multi-view geometry, to simultaneously localize objects and implicitly learn their dense geometry. We create separate implicit models for each detected object and train them dynamically and in parallel as new observations are added. Experiments on synthetic and real-world datasets demonstrate that our method can generate semantic object map with shape reconstruction, and be competitive with offline methods while achieving real-time performance (25Hz). The code and dataset will be available at: https://github.com/XiaoHan-Git/RO-MAP
Light Sampling Field and BRDF Representation for Physically-based Neural Rendering
Physically-based rendering (PBR) is key for immersive rendering effects used widely in the industry to showcase detailed realistic scenes from computer graphics assets. A well-known caveat is that producing the same is computationally heavy and relies on complex capture devices. Inspired by the success in quality and efficiency of recent volumetric neural rendering, we want to develop a physically-based neural shader to eliminate device dependency and significantly boost performance. However, no existing lighting and material models in the current neural rendering approaches can accurately represent the comprehensive lighting models and BRDFs properties required by the PBR process. Thus, this paper proposes a novel lighting representation that models direct and indirect light locally through a light sampling strategy in a learned light sampling field. We also propose BRDF models to separately represent surface/subsurface scattering details to enable complex objects such as translucent material (i.e., skin, jade). We then implement our proposed representations with an end-to-end physically-based neural face skin shader, which takes a standard face asset (i.e., geometry, albedo map, and normal map) and an HDRI for illumination as inputs and generates a photo-realistic rendering as output. Extensive experiments showcase the quality and efficiency of our PBR face skin shader, indicating the effectiveness of our proposed lighting and material representations.
Improving Neural Radiance Fields with Depth-aware Optimization for Novel View Synthesis
With dense inputs, Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) is able to render photo-realistic novel views under static conditions. Although the synthesis quality is excellent, existing NeRF-based methods fail to obtain moderate three-dimensional (3D) structures. The novel view synthesis quality drops dramatically given sparse input due to the implicitly reconstructed inaccurate 3D-scene structure. We propose SfMNeRF, a method to better synthesize novel views as well as reconstruct the 3D-scene geometry. SfMNeRF leverages the knowledge from the self-supervised depth estimation methods to constrain the 3D-scene geometry during view synthesis training. Specifically, SfMNeRF employs the epipolar, photometric consistency, depth smoothness, and position-of-matches constraints to explicitly reconstruct the 3D-scene structure. Through these explicit constraints and the implicit constraint from NeRF, our method improves the view synthesis as well as the 3D-scene geometry performance of NeRF at the same time. In addition, SfMNeRF synthesizes novel sub-pixels in which the ground truth is obtained by image interpolation. This strategy enables SfMNeRF to include more samples to improve generalization performance. Experiments on two public datasets demonstrate that SfMNeRF surpasses state-of-the-art approaches. Code is available at https://github.com/XTU-PR-LAB/SfMNeRF
One-Shot High-Fidelity Talking-Head Synthesis with Deformable Neural Radiance Field
Talking head generation aims to generate faces that maintain the identity information of the source image and imitate the motion of the driving image. Most pioneering methods rely primarily on 2D representations and thus will inevitably suffer from face distortion when large head rotations are encountered. Recent works instead employ explicit 3D structural representations or implicit neural rendering to improve performance under large pose changes. Nevertheless, the fidelity of identity and expression is not so desirable, especially for novel-view synthesis. In this paper, we propose HiDe-NeRF, which achieves high-fidelity and free-view talking-head synthesis. Drawing on the recently proposed Deformable Neural Radiance Fields, HiDe-NeRF represents the 3D dynamic scene into a canonical appearance field and an implicit deformation field, where the former comprises the canonical source face and the latter models the driving pose and expression. In particular, we improve fidelity from two aspects: (i) to enhance identity expressiveness, we design a generalized appearance module that leverages multi-scale volume features to preserve face shape and details; (ii) to improve expression preciseness, we propose a lightweight deformation module that explicitly decouples the pose and expression to enable precise expression modeling. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our proposed approach can generate better results than previous works. Project page: https://www.waytron.net/hidenerf/
MRVM-NeRF: Mask-Based Pretraining for Neural Radiance Fields
Most Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) have poor generalization ability, limiting their application when representing multiple scenes by a single model. To ameliorate this problem, existing methods simply condition NeRF models on image features, lacking the global understanding and modeling of the entire 3D scene. Inspired by the significant success of mask-based modeling in other research fields, we propose a masked ray and view modeling method for generalizable NeRF (MRVM-NeRF), the first attempt to incorporate mask-based pretraining into 3D implicit representations. Specifically, considering that the core of NeRFs lies in modeling 3D representations along the rays and across the views, we randomly mask a proportion of sampled points along the ray at fine stage by discarding partial information obtained from multi-viewpoints, targeting at predicting the corresponding features produced in the coarse branch. In this way, the learned prior knowledge of 3D scenes during pretraining helps the model generalize better to novel scenarios after finetuning. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of our proposed MRVM-NeRF under various synthetic and real-world settings, both qualitatively and quantitatively. Our empirical studies reveal the effectiveness of our proposed innovative MRVM which is specifically designed for NeRF models.
Neural Residual Radiance Fields for Streamably Free-Viewpoint Videos
The success of the Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) for modeling and free-view rendering static objects has inspired numerous attempts on dynamic scenes. Current techniques that utilize neural rendering for facilitating free-view videos (FVVs) are restricted to either offline rendering or are capable of processing only brief sequences with minimal motion. In this paper, we present a novel technique, Residual Radiance Field or ReRF, as a highly compact neural representation to achieve real-time FVV rendering on long-duration dynamic scenes. ReRF explicitly models the residual information between adjacent timestamps in the spatial-temporal feature space, with a global coordinate-based tiny MLP as the feature decoder. Specifically, ReRF employs a compact motion grid along with a residual feature grid to exploit inter-frame feature similarities. We show such a strategy can handle large motions without sacrificing quality. We further present a sequential training scheme to maintain the smoothness and the sparsity of the motion/residual grids. Based on ReRF, we design a special FVV codec that achieves three orders of magnitudes compression rate and provides a companion ReRF player to support online streaming of long-duration FVVs of dynamic scenes. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of ReRF for compactly representing dynamic radiance fields, enabling an unprecedented free-viewpoint viewing experience in speed and quality.
Instance Neural Radiance Field
This paper presents one of the first learning-based NeRF 3D instance segmentation pipelines, dubbed as Instance Neural Radiance Field, or Instance NeRF. Taking a NeRF pretrained from multi-view RGB images as input, Instance NeRF can learn 3D instance segmentation of a given scene, represented as an instance field component of the NeRF model. To this end, we adopt a 3D proposal-based mask prediction network on the sampled volumetric features from NeRF, which generates discrete 3D instance masks. The coarse 3D mask prediction is then projected to image space to match 2D segmentation masks from different views generated by existing panoptic segmentation models, which are used to supervise the training of the instance field. Notably, beyond generating consistent 2D segmentation maps from novel views, Instance NeRF can query instance information at any 3D point, which greatly enhances NeRF object segmentation and manipulation. Our method is also one of the first to achieve such results without ground-truth instance information during inference. Experimented on synthetic and real-world NeRF datasets with complex indoor scenes, Instance NeRF surpasses previous NeRF segmentation works and competitive 2D segmentation methods in segmentation performance on unseen views. See the demo video at https://youtu.be/wW9Bme73coI.
NeRF applied to satellite imagery for surface reconstruction
We present Surf-NeRF, a modified implementation of the recently introduced Shadow Neural Radiance Field (S-NeRF) model. This method is able to synthesize novel views from a sparse set of satellite images of a scene, while accounting for the variation in lighting present in the pictures. The trained model can also be used to accurately estimate the surface elevation of the scene, which is often a desirable quantity for satellite observation applications. S-NeRF improves on the standard Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) method by considering the radiance as a function of the albedo and the irradiance. Both these quantities are output by fully connected neural network branches of the model, and the latter is considered as a function of the direct light from the sun and the diffuse color from the sky. The implementations were run on a dataset of satellite images, augmented using a zoom-and-crop technique. A hyperparameter study for NeRF was carried out, leading to intriguing observations on the model's convergence. Finally, both NeRF and S-NeRF were run until 100k epochs in order to fully fit the data and produce their best possible predictions. The code related to this article can be found at https://github.com/fsemerar/surfnerf.
PVD-AL: Progressive Volume Distillation with Active Learning for Efficient Conversion Between Different NeRF Architectures
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have been widely adopted as practical and versatile representations for 3D scenes, facilitating various downstream tasks. However, different architectures, including plain Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP), Tensors, low-rank Tensors, Hashtables, and their compositions, have their trade-offs. For instance, Hashtables-based representations allow for faster rendering but lack clear geometric meaning, making spatial-relation-aware editing challenging. To address this limitation and maximize the potential of each architecture, we propose Progressive Volume Distillation with Active Learning (PVD-AL), a systematic distillation method that enables any-to-any conversions between different architectures. PVD-AL decomposes each structure into two parts and progressively performs distillation from shallower to deeper volume representation, leveraging effective information retrieved from the rendering process. Additionally, a Three-Levels of active learning technique provides continuous feedback during the distillation process, resulting in high-performance results. Empirical evidence is presented to validate our method on multiple benchmark datasets. For example, PVD-AL can distill an MLP-based model from a Hashtables-based model at a 10~20X faster speed and 0.8dB~2dB higher PSNR than training the NeRF model from scratch. Moreover, PVD-AL permits the fusion of diverse features among distinct structures, enabling models with multiple editing properties and providing a more efficient model to meet real-time requirements. Project website:http://sk-fun.fun/PVD-AL.
Event-based Camera Tracker by $\nabla$t NeRF
When a camera travels across a 3D world, only a fraction of pixel value changes; an event-based camera observes the change as sparse events. How can we utilize sparse events for efficient recovery of the camera pose? We show that we can recover the camera pose by minimizing the error between sparse events and the temporal gradient of the scene represented as a neural radiance field (NeRF). To enable the computation of the temporal gradient of the scene, we augment NeRF's camera pose as a time function. When the input pose to the NeRF coincides with the actual pose, the output of the temporal gradient of NeRF equals the observed intensity changes on the event's points. Using this principle, we propose an event-based camera pose tracking framework called TeGRA which realizes the pose update by using the sparse event's observation. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first camera pose estimation algorithm using the scene's implicit representation and the sparse intensity change from events.
Implicit Anatomical Rendering for Medical Image Segmentation with Stochastic Experts
Integrating high-level semantically correlated contents and low-level anatomical features is of central importance in medical image segmentation. Towards this end, recent deep learning-based medical segmentation methods have shown great promise in better modeling such information. However, convolution operators for medical segmentation typically operate on regular grids, which inherently blur the high-frequency regions, i.e., boundary regions. In this work, we propose MORSE, a generic implicit neural rendering framework designed at an anatomical level to assist learning in medical image segmentation. Our method is motivated by the fact that implicit neural representation has been shown to be more effective in fitting complex signals and solving computer graphics problems than discrete grid-based representation. The core of our approach is to formulate medical image segmentation as a rendering problem in an end-to-end manner. Specifically, we continuously align the coarse segmentation prediction with the ambiguous coordinate-based point representations and aggregate these features to adaptively refine the boundary region. To parallelly optimize multi-scale pixel-level features, we leverage the idea from Mixture-of-Expert (MoE) to design and train our MORSE with a stochastic gating mechanism. Our experiments demonstrate that MORSE can work well with different medical segmentation backbones, consistently achieving competitive performance improvements in both 2D and 3D supervised medical segmentation methods. We also theoretically analyze the superiority of MORSE.
Image Stabilization for Hololens Camera in Remote Collaboration
With the advent of new technologies, Augmented Reality (AR) has become an effective tool in remote collaboration. Narrow field-of-view (FoV) and motion blur can offer an unpleasant experience with limited cognition for remote viewers of AR headsets. In this article, we propose a two-stage pipeline to tackle this issue and ensure a stable viewing experience with a larger FoV. The solution involves an offline 3D reconstruction of the indoor environment, followed by enhanced rendering using only the live poses of AR device. We experiment with and evaluate the two different 3D reconstruction methods, RGB-D geometric approach and Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF), based on their data requirements, reconstruction quality, rendering, and training times. The generated sequences from these methods had smoother transitions and provided a better perspective of the environment. The geometry-based enhanced FoV method had better renderings as it lacked blurry outputs making it better than the other attempted approaches. Structural Similarity Index (SSIM) and Peak Signal to Noise Ratio (PSNR) metrics were used to quantitatively show that the rendering quality using the geometry-based enhanced FoV method is better. Link to the code repository - https://github.com/MixedRealityETHZ/ImageStabilization.
MonoHuman: Animatable Human Neural Field from Monocular Video
Animating virtual avatars with free-view control is crucial for various applications like virtual reality and digital entertainment. Previous studies have attempted to utilize the representation power of the neural radiance field (NeRF) to reconstruct the human body from monocular videos. Recent works propose to graft a deformation network into the NeRF to further model the dynamics of the human neural field for animating vivid human motions. However, such pipelines either rely on pose-dependent representations or fall short of motion coherency due to frame-independent optimization, making it difficult to generalize to unseen pose sequences realistically. In this paper, we propose a novel framework MonoHuman, which robustly renders view-consistent and high-fidelity avatars under arbitrary novel poses. Our key insight is to model the deformation field with bi-directional constraints and explicitly leverage the off-the-peg keyframe information to reason the feature correlations for coherent results. Specifically, we first propose a Shared Bidirectional Deformation module, which creates a pose-independent generalizable deformation field by disentangling backward and forward deformation correspondences into shared skeletal motion weight and separate non-rigid motions. Then, we devise a Forward Correspondence Search module, which queries the correspondence feature of keyframes to guide the rendering network. The rendered results are thus multi-view consistent with high fidelity, even under challenging novel pose settings. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of our proposed MonoHuman over state-of-the-art methods.
Learning Personalized High Quality Volumetric Head Avatars from Monocular RGB Videos
We propose a method to learn a high-quality implicit 3D head avatar from a monocular RGB video captured in the wild. The learnt avatar is driven by a parametric face model to achieve user-controlled facial expressions and head poses. Our hybrid pipeline combines the geometry prior and dynamic tracking of a 3DMM with a neural radiance field to achieve fine-grained control and photorealism. To reduce over-smoothing and improve out-of-model expressions synthesis, we propose to predict local features anchored on the 3DMM geometry. These learnt features are driven by 3DMM deformation and interpolated in 3D space to yield the volumetric radiance at a designated query point. We further show that using a Convolutional Neural Network in the UV space is critical in incorporating spatial context and producing representative local features. Extensive experiments show that we are able to reconstruct high-quality avatars, with more accurate expression-dependent details, good generalization to out-of-training expressions, and quantitatively superior renderings compared to other state-of-the-art approaches.
Disorder-invariant Implicit Neural Representation
Implicit neural representation (INR) characterizes the attributes of a signal as a function of corresponding coordinates which emerges as a sharp weapon for solving inverse problems. However, the expressive power of INR is limited by the spectral bias in the network training. In this paper, we find that such a frequency-related problem could be greatly solved by re-arranging the coordinates of the input signal, for which we propose the disorder-invariant implicit neural representation (DINER) by augmenting a hash-table to a traditional INR backbone. Given discrete signals sharing the same histogram of attributes and different arrangement orders, the hash-table could project the coordinates into the same distribution for which the mapped signal can be better modeled using the subsequent INR network, leading to significantly alleviated spectral bias. Furthermore, the expressive power of the DINER is determined by the width of the hash-table. Different width corresponds to different geometrical elements in the attribute space, \textit{e.g.}, 1D curve, 2D curved-plane and 3D curved-volume when the width is set as $1$, $2$ and $3$, respectively. More covered areas of the geometrical elements result in stronger expressive power. Experiments not only reveal the generalization of the DINER for different INR backbones (MLP vs. SIREN) and various tasks (image/video representation, phase retrieval, refractive index recovery, and neural radiance field optimization) but also show the superiority over the state-of-the-art algorithms both in quality and speed. \textit{Project page:} \url{https://ezio77.github.io/DINER-website/}
JacobiNeRF: NeRF Shaping with Mutual Information Gradients
We propose a method that trains a neural radiance field (NeRF) to encode not only the appearance of the scene but also semantic correlations between scene points, regions, or entities -- aiming to capture their mutual co-variation patterns. In contrast to the traditional first-order photometric reconstruction objective, our method explicitly regularizes the learning dynamics to align the Jacobians of highly-correlated entities, which proves to maximize the mutual information between them under random scene perturbations. By paying attention to this second-order information, we can shape a NeRF to express semantically meaningful synergies when the network weights are changed by a delta along the gradient of a single entity, region, or even a point. To demonstrate the merit of this mutual information modeling, we leverage the coordinated behavior of scene entities that emerges from our shaping to perform label propagation for semantic and instance segmentation. Our experiments show that a JacobiNeRF is more efficient in propagating annotations among 2D pixels and 3D points compared to NeRFs without mutual information shaping, especially in extremely sparse label regimes -- thus reducing annotation burden. The same machinery can further be used for entity selection or scene modifications.
Multi-view reconstruction of bullet time effect based on improved NSFF model
Bullet time is a type of visual effect commonly used in film, television and games that makes time seem to slow down or stop while still preserving dynamic details in the scene. It usually requires multiple sets of cameras to move slowly with the subject and is synthesized using post-production techniques, which is costly and one-time. The dynamic scene perspective reconstruction technology based on neural rendering field can be used to solve this requirement, but most of the current methods are poor in reconstruction accuracy due to the blurred input image and overfitting of dynamic and static regions. Based on the NSFF algorithm, this paper reconstructed the common time special effects scenes in movies and television from a new perspective. To improve the accuracy of the reconstructed images, fuzzy kernel was added to the network for reconstruction and analysis of the fuzzy process, and the clear perspective after analysis was input into the NSFF to improve the accuracy. By using the optical flow prediction information to suppress the dynamic network timely, the network is forced to improve the reconstruction effect of dynamic and static networks independently, and the ability to understand and reconstruct dynamic and static scenes is improved. To solve the overfitting problem of dynamic and static scenes, a new dynamic and static cross entropy loss is designed. Experimental results show that compared with original NSFF and other new perspective reconstruction algorithms of dynamic scenes, the improved NSFF-RFCT improves the reconstruction accuracy and enhances the understanding ability of dynamic and static scenes.
VDN-NeRF: Resolving Shape-Radiance Ambiguity via View-Dependence Normalization
We propose VDN-NeRF, a method to train neural radiance fields (NeRFs) for better geometry under non-Lambertian surface and dynamic lighting conditions that cause significant variation in the radiance of a point when viewed from different angles. Instead of explicitly modeling the underlying factors that result in the view-dependent phenomenon, which could be complex yet not inclusive, we develop a simple and effective technique that normalizes the view-dependence by distilling invariant information already encoded in the learned NeRFs. We then jointly train NeRFs for view synthesis with view-dependence normalization to attain quality geometry. Our experiments show that even though shape-radiance ambiguity is inevitable, the proposed normalization can minimize its effect on geometry, which essentially aligns the optimal capacity needed for explaining view-dependent variations. Our method applies to various baselines and significantly improves geometry without changing the volume rendering pipeline, even if the data is captured under a moving light source. Code is available at: https://github.com/BoifZ/VDN-NeRF.
S-VolSDF: Sparse Multi-View Stereo Regularization of Neural Implicit Surfaces
Neural rendering of implicit surfaces performs well in 3D vision applications. However, it requires dense input views as supervision. When only sparse input images are available, output quality drops significantly due to the shape-radiance ambiguity problem. We note that this ambiguity can be constrained when a 3D point is visible in multiple views, as is the case in multi-view stereo (MVS). We thus propose to regularize neural rendering optimization with an MVS solution. The use of an MVS probability volume and a generalized cross entropy loss leads to a noise-tolerant optimization process. In addition, neural rendering provides global consistency constraints that guide the MVS depth hypothesis sampling and thus improves MVS performance. Given only three sparse input views, experiments show that our method not only outperforms generic neural rendering models by a large margin but also significantly increases the reconstruction quality of MVS models. Project webpage: https://hao-yu-wu.github.io/s-volsdf/.
NeRF-Supervised Deep Stereo
We introduce a novel framework for training deep stereo networks effortlessly and without any ground-truth. By leveraging state-of-the-art neural rendering solutions, we generate stereo training data from image sequences collected with a single handheld camera. On top of them, a NeRF-supervised training procedure is carried out, from which we exploit rendered stereo triplets to compensate for occlusions and depth maps as proxy labels. This results in stereo networks capable of predicting sharp and detailed disparity maps. Experimental results show that models trained under this regime yield a 30-40% improvement over existing self-supervised methods on the challenging Middlebury dataset, filling the gap to supervised models and, most times, outperforming them at zero-shot generalization.
SynBody: Synthetic Dataset with Layered Human Models for 3D Human Perception and Modeling
Synthetic data has emerged as a promising source for 3D human research as it offers low-cost access to large-scale human datasets. To advance the diversity and annotation quality of human models, we introduce a new synthetic dataset, Synbody, with three appealing features: 1) a clothed parametric human model that can generate a diverse range of subjects; 2) the layered human representation that naturally offers high-quality 3D annotations to support multiple tasks; 3) a scalable system for producing realistic data to facilitate real-world tasks. The dataset comprises 1.7M images with corresponding accurate 3D annotations, covering 10,000 human body models, 1000 actions, and various viewpoints. The dataset includes two subsets for human mesh recovery as well as human neural rendering. Extensive experiments on SynBody indicate that it substantially enhances both SMPL and SMPL-X estimation. Furthermore, the incorporation of layered annotations offers a valuable training resource for investigating the Human Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF).
NeILF++: Inter-Reflectable Light Fields for Geometry and Material Estimation
We present a novel differentiable rendering framework for joint geometry, material, and lighting estimation from multi-view images. In contrast to previous methods which assume a simplified environment map or co-located flashlights, in this work, we formulate the lighting of a static scene as one neural incident light field (NeILF) and one outgoing neural radiance field (NeRF). The key insight of the proposed method is the union of the incident and outgoing light fields through physically-based rendering and inter-reflections between surfaces, making it possible to disentangle the scene geometry, material, and lighting from image observations in a physically-based manner. The proposed incident light and inter-reflection framework can be easily applied to other NeRF systems. We show that our method can not only decompose the outgoing radiance into incident lights and surface materials, but also serve as a surface refinement module that further improves the reconstruction detail of the neural surface. We demonstrate on several datasets that the proposed method is able to achieve state-of-the-art results in terms of geometry reconstruction quality, material estimation accuracy, and the fidelity of novel view rendering.
Instant Neural Radiance Fields Stylization
We present Instant Neural Radiance Fields Stylization, a novel approach for multi-view image stylization for the 3D scene. Our approach models a neural radiance field based on neural graphics primitives, which use a hash table-based position encoder for position embedding. We split the position encoder into two parts, the content and style sub-branches, and train the network for normal novel view image synthesis with the content and style targets. In the inference stage, we execute AdaIN to the output features of the position encoder, with content and style voxel grid features as reference. With the adjusted features, the stylization of novel view images could be obtained. Our method extends the style target from style images to image sets of scenes and does not require additional network training for stylization. Given a set of images of 3D scenes and a style target(a style image or another set of 3D scenes), our method can generate stylized novel views with a consistent appearance at various view angles in less than 10 minutes on modern GPU hardware. Extensive experimental results demonstrate the validity and superiority of our method.
Point2Pix: Photo-Realistic Point Cloud Rendering via Neural Radiance Fields
Synthesizing photo-realistic images from a point cloud is challenging because of the sparsity of point cloud representation. Recent Neural Radiance Fields and extensions are proposed to synthesize realistic images from 2D input. In this paper, we present Point2Pix as a novel point renderer to link the 3D sparse point clouds with 2D dense image pixels. Taking advantage of the point cloud 3D prior and NeRF rendering pipeline, our method can synthesize high-quality images from colored point clouds, generally for novel indoor scenes. To improve the efficiency of ray sampling, we propose point-guided sampling, which focuses on valid samples. Also, we present Point Encoding to build Multi-scale Radiance Fields that provide discriminative 3D point features. Finally, we propose Fusion Encoding to efficiently synthesize high-quality images. Extensive experiments on the ScanNet and ArkitScenes datasets demonstrate the effectiveness and generalization.
CuNeRF: Cube-Based Neural Radiance Field for Zero-Shot Medical Image Arbitrary-Scale Super Resolution
Medical image arbitrary-scale super-resolution (MIASSR) has recently gained widespread attention, aiming to super sample medical volumes at arbitrary scales via a single model. However, existing MIASSR methods face two major limitations: (i) reliance on high-resolution (HR) volumes and (ii) limited generalization ability, which restricts their application in various scenarios. To overcome these limitations, we propose Cube-based Neural Radiance Field (CuNeRF), a zero-shot MIASSR framework that can yield medical images at arbitrary scales and viewpoints in a continuous domain. Unlike existing MIASSR methods that fit the mapping between low-resolution (LR) and HR volumes, CuNeRF focuses on building a coordinate-intensity continuous representation from LR volumes without the need for HR references. This is achieved by the proposed differentiable modules: including cube-based sampling, isotropic volume rendering, and cube-based hierarchical rendering. Through extensive experiments on magnetic resource imaging (MRI) and computed tomography (CT) modalities, we demonstrate that CuNeRF outperforms state-of-the-art MIASSR methods. CuNeRF yields better visual verisimilitude and reduces aliasing artifacts at various upsampling factors. Moreover, our CuNeRF does not need any LR-HR training pairs, which is more flexible and easier to be used than others. Our code will be publicly available soon.
SparseNeRF: Distilling Depth Ranking for Few-shot Novel View Synthesis
Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) significantly degrades when only a limited number of views are available. To complement the lack of 3D information, depth-based models, such as DSNeRF and MonoSDF, explicitly assume the availability of accurate depth maps of multiple views. They linearly scale the accurate depth maps as supervision to guide the predicted depth of few-shot NeRFs. However, accurate depth maps are difficult and expensive to capture due to wide-range depth distances in the wild.   In this work, we present a new Sparse-view NeRF (SparseNeRF) framework that exploits depth priors from real-world inaccurate observations. The inaccurate depth observations are either from pre-trained depth models or coarse depth maps of consumer-level depth sensors. Since coarse depth maps are not strictly scaled to the ground-truth depth maps, we propose a simple yet effective constraint, a local depth ranking method, on NeRFs such that the expected depth ranking of the NeRF is consistent with that of the coarse depth maps in local patches. To preserve the spatial continuity of the estimated depth of NeRF, we further propose a spatial continuity constraint to encourage the consistency of the expected depth continuity of NeRF with coarse depth maps. Surprisingly, with simple depth ranking constraints, SparseNeRF outperforms all state-of-the-art few-shot NeRF methods (including depth-based models) on standard LLFF and DTU datasets. Moreover, we collect a new dataset NVS-RGBD that contains real-world depth maps from Azure Kinect, ZED 2, and iPhone 13 Pro. Extensive experiments on NVS-RGBD dataset also validate the superiority and generalizability of SparseNeRF. Project page is available at https://sparsenerf.github.io/.
VMesh: Hybrid Volume-Mesh Representation for Efficient View Synthesis
With the emergence of neural radiance fields (NeRFs), view synthesis quality has reached an unprecedented level. Compared to traditional mesh-based assets, this volumetric representation is more powerful in expressing scene geometry but inevitably suffers from high rendering costs and can hardly be involved in further processes like editing, posing significant difficulties in combination with the existing graphics pipeline. In this paper, we present a hybrid volume-mesh representation, VMesh, which depicts an object with a textured mesh along with an auxiliary sparse volume. VMesh retains the advantages of mesh-based assets, such as efficient rendering, compact storage, and easy editing, while also incorporating the ability to represent subtle geometric structures provided by the volumetric counterpart. VMesh can be obtained from multi-view images of an object and renders at 2K 60FPS on common consumer devices with high fidelity, unleashing new opportunities for real-time immersive applications.
Adaptive Voronoi NeRFs
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) learn to represent a 3D scene from just a set of registered images. Increasing sizes of a scene demands more complex functions, typically represented by neural networks, to capture all details. Training and inference then involves querying the neural network millions of times per image, which becomes impractically slow. Since such complex functions can be replaced by multiple simpler functions to improve speed, we show that a hierarchy of Voronoi diagrams is a suitable choice to partition the scene. By equipping each Voronoi cell with its own NeRF, our approach is able to quickly learn a scene representation. We propose an intuitive partitioning of the space that increases quality gains during training by distributing information evenly among the networks and avoids artifacts through a top-down adaptive refinement. Our framework is agnostic to the underlying NeRF method and easy to implement, which allows it to be applied to various NeRF variants for improved learning and rendering speeds.
F$^{2}$-NeRF: Fast Neural Radiance Field Training with Free Camera Trajectories
This paper presents a novel grid-based NeRF called F2-NeRF (Fast-Free-NeRF) for novel view synthesis, which enables arbitrary input camera trajectories and only costs a few minutes for training. Existing fast grid-based NeRF training frameworks, like Instant-NGP, Plenoxels, DVGO, or TensoRF, are mainly designed for bounded scenes and rely on space warping to handle unbounded scenes. Existing two widely-used space-warping methods are only designed for the forward-facing trajectory or the 360-degree object-centric trajectory but cannot process arbitrary trajectories. In this paper, we delve deep into the mechanism of space warping to handle unbounded scenes. Based on our analysis, we further propose a novel space-warping method called perspective warping, which allows us to handle arbitrary trajectories in the grid-based NeRF framework. Extensive experiments demonstrate that F2-NeRF is able to use the same perspective warping to render high-quality images on two standard datasets and a new free trajectory dataset collected by us. Project page: https://totoro97.github.io/projects/f2-nerf.
JAWS: Just A Wild Shot for Cinematic Transfer in Neural Radiance Fields
This paper presents JAWS, an optimization-driven approach that achieves the robust transfer of visual cinematic features from a reference in-the-wild video clip to a newly generated clip. To this end, we rely on an implicit-neural-representation (INR) in a way to compute a clip that shares the same cinematic features as the reference clip. We propose a general formulation of a camera optimization problem in an INR that computes extrinsic and intrinsic camera parameters as well as timing. By leveraging the differentiability of neural representations, we can back-propagate our designed cinematic losses measured on proxy estimators through a NeRF network to the proposed cinematic parameters directly. We also introduce specific enhancements such as guidance maps to improve the overall quality and efficiency. Results display the capacity of our system to replicate well known camera sequences from movies, adapting the framing, camera parameters and timing of the generated video clip to maximize the similarity with the reference clip.
Generalizable Neural Voxels for Fast Human Radiance Fields
Rendering moving human bodies at free viewpoints only from a monocular video is quite a challenging problem. The information is too sparse to model complicated human body structures and motions from both view and pose dimensions. Neural radiance fields (NeRF) have shown great power in novel view synthesis and have been applied to human body rendering. However, most current NeRF-based methods bear huge costs for both training and rendering, which impedes the wide applications in real-life scenarios. In this paper, we propose a rendering framework that can learn moving human body structures extremely quickly from a monocular video. The framework is built by integrating both neural fields and neural voxels. Especially, a set of generalizable neural voxels are constructed. With pretrained on various human bodies, these general voxels represent a basic skeleton and can provide strong geometric priors. For the fine-tuning process, individual voxels are constructed for learning differential textures, complementary to general voxels. Thus learning a novel body can be further accelerated, taking only a few minutes. Our method shows significantly higher training efficiency compared with previous methods, while maintaining similar rendering quality. The project page is at https://taoranyi.com/gneuvox .
NeUDF: Learning Unsigned Distance Fields from Multi-view Images for Reconstructing Non-watertight Models
Volume rendering-based 3D reconstruction from multi-view images has gained popularity in recent years, largely due to the success of neural radiance fields (NeRF). A number of methods have been developed that build upon NeRF and use neural volume rendering to learn signed distance fields (SDFs) for reconstructing 3D models. However, SDF-based methods cannot represent non-watertight models and, therefore, cannot capture open boundaries. This paper proposes a new algorithm for learning an accurate unsigned distance field (UDF) from multi-view images, which is specifically designed for reconstructing non-watertight, textureless models. The proposed method, called NeUDF, addresses the limitations of existing UDF-based methods by introducing a simple and approximately unbiased and occlusion-aware density function. In addition, a smooth and differentiable UDF representation is presented to make the learning process easier and more efficient. Experiments on both texture-rich and textureless models demonstrate the robustness and effectiveness of the proposed approach, making it a promising solution for reconstructing challenging 3D models from multi-view images.
3D-Aware Multi-Class Image-to-Image Translation with NeRFs
Recent advances in 3D-aware generative models (3D-aware GANs) combined with Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have achieved impressive results. However no prior works investigate 3D-aware GANs for 3D consistent multi-class image-to-image (3D-aware I2I) translation. Naively using 2D-I2I translation methods suffers from unrealistic shape/identity change. To perform 3D-aware multi-class I2I translation, we decouple this learning process into a multi-class 3D-aware GAN step and a 3D-aware I2I translation step. In the first step, we propose two novel techniques: a new conditional architecture and an effective training strategy. In the second step, based on the well-trained multi-class 3D-aware GAN architecture, that preserves view-consistency, we construct a 3D-aware I2I translation system. To further reduce the view-consistency problems, we propose several new techniques, including a U-net-like adaptor network design, a hierarchical representation constrain and a relative regularization loss. In extensive experiments on two datasets, quantitative and qualitative results demonstrate that we successfully perform 3D-aware I2I translation with multi-view consistency.
Clean-NeRF: Reformulating NeRF to account for View-Dependent Observations
While Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) had achieved unprecedented novel view synthesis results, they have been struggling in dealing with large-scale cluttered scenes with sparse input views and highly view-dependent appearances. Specifically, existing NeRF-based models tend to produce blurry rendering with the volumetric reconstruction often inaccurate, where a lot of reconstruction errors are observed in the form of foggy "floaters" hovering within the entire volume of an opaque 3D scene. Such inaccuracies impede NeRF's potential for accurate 3D NeRF registration, object detection, segmentation, etc., which possibly accounts for only limited significant research effort so far to directly address these important 3D fundamental computer vision problems to date. This paper analyzes the NeRF's struggles in such settings and proposes Clean-NeRF for accurate 3D reconstruction and novel view rendering in complex scenes. Our key insights consist of enforcing effective appearance and geometry constraints, which are absent in the conventional NeRF reconstruction, by 1) automatically detecting and modeling view-dependent appearances in the training views to prevent them from interfering with density estimation, which is complete with 2) a geometric correction procedure performed on each traced ray during inference. Clean-NeRF can be implemented as a plug-in that can immediately benefit existing NeRF-based methods without additional input. Codes will be released.
Sat2Density: Faithful Density Learning from Satellite-Ground Image Pairs
This paper aims to develop an accurate 3D geometry representation of satellite images using satellite-ground image pairs. Our focus is on the challenging problem of generating ground-view panoramas from satellite images. We draw inspiration from the density field representation used in volumetric neural rendering and propose a new approach, called Sat2Density. Our method utilizes the properties of ground-view panoramas for the sky and non-sky regions to learn faithful density fields of 3D scenes in a geometric perspective. Unlike other methods that require extra 3D information during training, our Sat2Density can automatically learn the accurate and faithful 3D geometry via density representation from 2D-only supervision. This advancement significantly improves the ground-view panorama synthesis task. Additionally, our study provides a new geometric perspective to understand the relationship between satellite and ground-view images in 3D space.
SUDS: Scalable Urban Dynamic Scenes
We extend neural radiance fields (NeRFs) to dynamic large-scale urban scenes. Prior work tends to reconstruct single video clips of short durations (up to 10 seconds). Two reasons are that such methods (a) tend to scale linearly with the number of moving objects and input videos because a separate model is built for each and (b) tend to require supervision via 3D bounding boxes and panoptic labels, obtained manually or via category-specific models. As a step towards truly open-world reconstructions of dynamic cities, we introduce two key innovations: (a) we factorize the scene into three separate hash table data structures to efficiently encode static, dynamic, and far-field radiance fields, and (b) we make use of unlabeled target signals consisting of RGB images, sparse LiDAR, off-the-shelf self-supervised 2D descriptors, and most importantly, 2D optical flow.   Operationalizing such inputs via photometric, geometric, and feature-metric reconstruction losses enables SUDS to decompose dynamic scenes into the static background, individual objects, and their motions. When combined with our multi-branch table representation, such reconstructions can be scaled to tens of thousands of objects across 1.2 million frames from 1700 videos spanning geospatial footprints of hundreds of kilometers, (to our knowledge) the largest dynamic NeRF built to date.   We present qualitative initial results on a variety of tasks enabled by our representations, including novel-view synthesis of dynamic urban scenes, unsupervised 3D instance segmentation, and unsupervised 3D cuboid detection. To compare to prior work, we also evaluate on KITTI and Virtual KITTI 2, surpassing state-of-the-art methods that rely on ground truth 3D bounding box annotations while being 10x quicker to train.
DBARF: Deep Bundle-Adjusting Generalizable Neural Radiance Fields
Recent works such as BARF and GARF can bundle adjust camera poses with neural radiance fields (NeRF) which is based on coordinate-MLPs. Despite the impressive results, these methods cannot be applied to Generalizable NeRFs (GeNeRFs) which require image feature extractions that are often based on more complicated 3D CNN or transformer architectures. In this work, we first analyze the difficulties of jointly optimizing camera poses with GeNeRFs, and then further propose our DBARF to tackle these issues. Our DBARF which bundle adjusts camera poses by taking a cost feature map as an implicit cost function can be jointly trained with GeNeRFs in a self-supervised manner. Unlike BARF and its follow-up works, which can only be applied to per-scene optimized NeRFs and need accurate initial camera poses with the exception of forward-facing scenes, our method can generalize across scenes and does not require any good initialization. Experiments show the effectiveness and generalization ability of our DBARF when evaluated on real-world datasets. Our code is available at \url{https://aibluefisher.github.io/dbarf}.
NeRF-DS: Neural Radiance Fields for Dynamic Specular Objects
Dynamic Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) is a powerful algorithm capable of rendering photo-realistic novel view images from a monocular RGB video of a dynamic scene. Although it warps moving points across frames from the observation spaces to a common canonical space for rendering, dynamic NeRF does not model the change of the reflected color during the warping. As a result, this approach often fails drastically on challenging specular objects in motion. We address this limitation by reformulating the neural radiance field function to be conditioned on surface position and orientation in the observation space. This allows the specular surface at different poses to keep the different reflected colors when mapped to the common canonical space. Additionally, we add the mask of moving objects to guide the deformation field. As the specular surface changes color during motion, the mask mitigates the problem of failure to find temporal correspondences with only RGB supervision. We evaluate our model based on the novel view synthesis quality with a self-collected dataset of different moving specular objects in realistic environments. The experimental results demonstrate that our method significantly improves the reconstruction quality of moving specular objects from monocular RGB videos compared to the existing NeRF models. Our code and data are available at the project website https://github.com/JokerYan/NeRF-DS.
Make-It-3D: High-Fidelity 3D Creation from A Single Image with Diffusion Prior
In this work, we investigate the problem of creating high-fidelity 3D content from only a single image. This is inherently challenging: it essentially involves estimating the underlying 3D geometry while simultaneously hallucinating unseen textures. To address this challenge, we leverage prior knowledge from a well-trained 2D diffusion model to act as 3D-aware supervision for 3D creation. Our approach, Make-It-3D, employs a two-stage optimization pipeline: the first stage optimizes a neural radiance field by incorporating constraints from the reference image at the frontal view and diffusion prior at novel views; the second stage transforms the coarse model into textured point clouds and further elevates the realism with diffusion prior while leveraging the high-quality textures from the reference image. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method outperforms prior works by a large margin, resulting in faithful reconstructions and impressive visual quality. Our method presents the first attempt to achieve high-quality 3D creation from a single image for general objects and enables various applications such as text-to-3D creation and texture editing.
NeuFace: Realistic 3D Neural Face Rendering from Multi-view Images
Realistic face rendering from multi-view images is beneficial to various computer vision and graphics applications. Due to the complex spatially-varying reflectance properties and geometry characteristics of faces, however, it remains challenging to recover 3D facial representations both faithfully and efficiently in the current studies. This paper presents a novel 3D face rendering model, namely NeuFace, to learn accurate and physically-meaningful underlying 3D representations by neural rendering techniques. It naturally incorporates the neural BRDFs into physically based rendering, capturing sophisticated facial geometry and appearance clues in a collaborative manner. Specifically, we introduce an approximated BRDF integration and a simple yet new low-rank prior, which effectively lower the ambiguities and boost the performance of the facial BRDFs. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of NeuFace in human face rendering, along with a decent generalization ability to common objects.
Grid-guided Neural Radiance Fields for Large Urban Scenes
Purely MLP-based neural radiance fields (NeRF-based methods) often suffer from underfitting with blurred renderings on large-scale scenes due to limited model capacity. Recent approaches propose to geographically divide the scene and adopt multiple sub-NeRFs to model each region individually, leading to linear scale-up in training costs and the number of sub-NeRFs as the scene expands. An alternative solution is to use a feature grid representation, which is computationally efficient and can naturally scale to a large scene with increased grid resolutions. However, the feature grid tends to be less constrained and often reaches suboptimal solutions, producing noisy artifacts in renderings, especially in regions with complex geometry and texture. In this work, we present a new framework that realizes high-fidelity rendering on large urban scenes while being computationally efficient. We propose to use a compact multiresolution ground feature plane representation to coarsely capture the scene, and complement it with positional encoding inputs through another NeRF branch for rendering in a joint learning fashion. We show that such an integration can utilize the advantages of two alternative solutions: a light-weighted NeRF is sufficient, under the guidance of the feature grid representation, to render photorealistic novel views with fine details; and the jointly optimized ground feature planes, can meanwhile gain further refinements, forming a more accurate and compact feature space and output much more natural rendering results.
Deformable Model Driven Neural Rendering for High-fidelity 3D Reconstruction of Human Heads Under Low-View Settings
We propose a robust method for learning neural implicit functions that can reconstruct 3D human heads with high-fidelity geometry from low-view inputs. We represent 3D human heads as the zero level-set of a composed signed distance field that consists of a smooth template, a non-rigid deformation, and a high-frequency displacement field. The template represents identity-independent and expression-neutral features, which is trained on multiple individuals, along with the deformation network. The displacement field encodes identity-dependent geometric details, trained for each specific individual. We train our network in two stages using a coarse-to-fine strategy without 3D supervision. Our experiments demonstrate that the geometry decomposition and two-stage training make our method robust and our model outperforms existing methods in terms of reconstruction accuracy and novel view synthesis under low-view settings. Additionally, the pre-trained template serves a good initialization for our model to adapt to unseen individuals.
CompoNeRF: Text-guided Multi-object Compositional NeRF with Editable 3D Scene Layout
Recent research endeavors have shown that combining neural radiance fields (NeRFs) with pre-trained diffusion models holds great potential for text-to-3D generation.However, a hurdle is that they often encounter guidance collapse when rendering complex scenes from multi-object texts. Because the text-to-image diffusion models are inherently unconstrained, making them less competent to accurately associate object semantics with specific 3D structures. To address this issue, we propose a novel framework, dubbed CompoNeRF, that explicitly incorporates an editable 3D scene layout to provide effective guidance at the single object (i.e., local) and whole scene (i.e., global) levels. Firstly, we interpret the multi-object text as an editable 3D scene layout containing multiple local NeRFs associated with the object-specific 3D box coordinates and text prompt, which can be easily collected from users. Then, we introduce a global MLP to calibrate the compositional latent features from local NeRFs, which surprisingly improves the view consistency across different local NeRFs. Lastly, we apply the text guidance on global and local levels through their corresponding views to avoid guidance ambiguity. This way, our CompoNeRF allows for flexible scene editing and re-composition of trained local NeRFs into a new scene by manipulating the 3D layout or text prompt. Leveraging the open-source Stable Diffusion model, our CompoNeRF can generate faithful and editable text-to-3D results while opening a potential direction for text-guided multi-object composition via the editable 3D scene layout.
HandNeRF: Neural Radiance Fields for Animatable Interacting Hands
We propose a novel framework to reconstruct accurate appearance and geometry with neural radiance fields (NeRF) for interacting hands, enabling the rendering of photo-realistic images and videos for gesture animation from arbitrary views. Given multi-view images of a single hand or interacting hands, an off-the-shelf skeleton estimator is first employed to parameterize the hand poses. Then we design a pose-driven deformation field to establish correspondence from those different poses to a shared canonical space, where a pose-disentangled NeRF for one hand is optimized. Such unified modeling efficiently complements the geometry and texture cues in rarely-observed areas for both hands. Meanwhile, we further leverage the pose priors to generate pseudo depth maps as guidance for occlusion-aware density learning. Moreover, a neural feature distillation method is proposed to achieve cross-domain alignment for color optimization. We conduct extensive experiments to verify the merits of our proposed HandNeRF and report a series of state-of-the-art results both qualitatively and quantitatively on the large-scale InterHand2.6M dataset.
ABLE-NeRF: Attention-Based Rendering with Learnable Embeddings for Neural Radiance Field
Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) is a popular method in representing 3D scenes by optimising a continuous volumetric scene function. Its large success which lies in applying volumetric rendering (VR) is also its Achilles' heel in producing view-dependent effects. As a consequence, glossy and transparent surfaces often appear murky. A remedy to reduce these artefacts is to constrain this VR equation by excluding volumes with back-facing normal. While this approach has some success in rendering glossy surfaces, translucent objects are still poorly represented. In this paper, we present an alternative to the physics-based VR approach by introducing a self-attention-based framework on volumes along a ray. In addition, inspired by modern game engines which utilise Light Probes to store local lighting passing through the scene, we incorporate Learnable Embeddings to capture view dependent effects within the scene. Our method, which we call ABLE-NeRF, significantly reduces `blurry' glossy surfaces in rendering and produces realistic translucent surfaces which lack in prior art. In the Blender dataset, ABLE-NeRF achieves SOTA results and surpasses Ref-NeRF in all 3 image quality metrics PSNR, SSIM, LPIPS.
GM-NeRF: Learning Generalizable Model-based Neural Radiance Fields from Multi-view Images
In this work, we focus on synthesizing high-fidelity novel view images for arbitrary human performers, given a set of sparse multi-view images. It is a challenging task due to the large variation among articulated body poses and heavy self-occlusions. To alleviate this, we introduce an effective generalizable framework Generalizable Model-based Neural Radiance Fields (GM-NeRF) to synthesize free-viewpoint images. Specifically, we propose a geometry-guided attention mechanism to register the appearance code from multi-view 2D images to a geometry proxy which can alleviate the misalignment between inaccurate geometry prior and pixel space. On top of that, we further conduct neural rendering and partial gradient backpropagation for efficient perceptual supervision and improvement of the perceptual quality of synthesis. To evaluate our method, we conduct experiments on synthesized datasets THuman2.0 and Multi-garment, and real-world datasets Genebody and ZJUMocap. The results demonstrate that our approach outperforms state-of-the-art methods in terms of novel view synthesis and geometric reconstruction.
TEGLO: High Fidelity Canonical Texture Mapping from Single-View Images
Recent work in Neural Fields (NFs) learn 3D representations from class-specific single view image collections. However, they are unable to reconstruct the input data preserving high-frequency details. Further, these methods do not disentangle appearance from geometry and hence are not suitable for tasks such as texture transfer and editing. In this work, we propose TEGLO (Textured EG3D-GLO) for learning 3D representations from single view in-the-wild image collections for a given class of objects. We accomplish this by training a conditional Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) without any explicit 3D supervision. We equip our method with editing capabilities by creating a dense correspondence mapping to a 2D canonical space. We demonstrate that such mapping enables texture transfer and texture editing without requiring meshes with shared topology. Our key insight is that by mapping the input image pixels onto the texture space we can achieve near perfect reconstruction (>= 74 dB PSNR at 1024^2 resolution). Our formulation allows for high quality 3D consistent novel view synthesis with high-frequency details at megapixel image resolution.
SCADE: NeRFs from Space Carving with Ambiguity-Aware Depth Estimates
Neural radiance fields (NeRFs) have enabled high fidelity 3D reconstruction from multiple 2D input views. However, a well-known drawback of NeRFs is the less-than-ideal performance under a small number of views, due to insufficient constraints enforced by volumetric rendering. To address this issue, we introduce SCADE, a novel technique that improves NeRF reconstruction quality on sparse, unconstrained input views for in-the-wild indoor scenes. To constrain NeRF reconstruction, we leverage geometric priors in the form of per-view depth estimates produced with state-of-the-art monocular depth estimation models, which can generalize across scenes. A key challenge is that monocular depth estimation is an ill-posed problem, with inherent ambiguities. To handle this issue, we propose a new method that learns to predict, for each view, a continuous, multimodal distribution of depth estimates using conditional Implicit Maximum Likelihood Estimation (cIMLE). In order to disambiguate exploiting multiple views, we introduce an original space carving loss that guides the NeRF representation to fuse multiple hypothesized depth maps from each view and distill from them a common geometry that is consistent with all views. Experiments show that our approach enables higher fidelity novel view synthesis from sparse views. Our project page can be found at https://scade-spacecarving-nerfs.github.io .
DreamBooth3D: Subject-Driven Text-to-3D Generation
We present DreamBooth3D, an approach to personalize text-to-3D generative models from as few as 3-6 casually captured images of a subject. Our approach combines recent advances in personalizing text-to-image models (DreamBooth) with text-to-3D generation (DreamFusion). We find that naively combining these methods fails to yield satisfactory subject-specific 3D assets due to personalized text-to-image models overfitting to the input viewpoints of the subject. We overcome this through a 3-stage optimization strategy where we jointly leverage the 3D consistency of neural radiance fields together with the personalization capability of text-to-image models. Our method can produce high-quality, subject-specific 3D assets with text-driven modifications such as novel poses, colors and attributes that are not seen in any of the input images of the subject.
Set-the-Scene: Global-Local Training for Generating Controllable NeRF Scenes
Recent breakthroughs in text-guided image generation have led to remarkable progress in the field of 3D synthesis from text. By optimizing neural radiance fields (NeRF) directly from text, recent methods are able to produce remarkable results. Yet, these methods are limited in their control of each object's placement or appearance, as they represent the scene as a whole. This can be a major issue in scenarios that require refining or manipulating objects in the scene. To remedy this deficit, we propose a novel GlobalLocal training framework for synthesizing a 3D scene using object proxies. A proxy represents the object's placement in the generated scene and optionally defines its coarse geometry. The key to our approach is to represent each object as an independent NeRF. We alternate between optimizing each NeRF on its own and as part of the full scene. Thus, a complete representation of each object can be learned, while also creating a harmonious scene with style and lighting match. We show that using proxies allows a wide variety of editing options, such as adjusting the placement of each independent object, removing objects from a scene, or refining an object. Our results show that Set-the-Scene offers a powerful solution for scene synthesis and manipulation, filling a crucial gap in controllable text-to-3D synthesis.
SINE: Semantic-driven Image-based NeRF Editing with Prior-guided Editing Field
Despite the great success in 2D editing using user-friendly tools, such as Photoshop, semantic strokes, or even text prompts, similar capabilities in 3D areas are still limited, either relying on 3D modeling skills or allowing editing within only a few categories. In this paper, we present a novel semantic-driven NeRF editing approach, which enables users to edit a neural radiance field with a single image, and faithfully delivers edited novel views with high fidelity and multi-view consistency. To achieve this goal, we propose a prior-guided editing field to encode fine-grained geometric and texture editing in 3D space, and develop a series of techniques to aid the editing process, including cyclic constraints with a proxy mesh to facilitate geometric supervision, a color compositing mechanism to stabilize semantic-driven texture editing, and a feature-cluster-based regularization to preserve the irrelevant content unchanged. Extensive experiments and editing examples on both real-world and synthetic data demonstrate that our method achieves photo-realistic 3D editing using only a single edited image, pushing the bound of semantic-driven editing in 3D real-world scenes. Our project webpage: https://zju3dv.github.io/sine/.
Transforming Radiance Field with Lipschitz Network for Photorealistic 3D Scene Stylization
Recent advances in 3D scene representation and novel view synthesis have witnessed the rise of Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs). Nevertheless, it is not trivial to exploit NeRF for the photorealistic 3D scene stylization task, which aims to generate visually consistent and photorealistic stylized scenes from novel views. Simply coupling NeRF with photorealistic style transfer (PST) will result in cross-view inconsistency and degradation of stylized view syntheses. Through a thorough analysis, we demonstrate that this non-trivial task can be simplified in a new light: When transforming the appearance representation of a pre-trained NeRF with Lipschitz mapping, the consistency and photorealism across source views will be seamlessly encoded into the syntheses. That motivates us to build a concise and flexible learning framework namely LipRF, which upgrades arbitrary 2D PST methods with Lipschitz mapping tailored for the 3D scene. Technically, LipRF first pre-trains a radiance field to reconstruct the 3D scene, and then emulates the style on each view by 2D PST as the prior to learn a Lipschitz network to stylize the pre-trained appearance. In view of that Lipschitz condition highly impacts the expressivity of the neural network, we devise an adaptive regularization to balance the reconstruction and stylization. A gradual gradient aggregation strategy is further introduced to optimize LipRF in a cost-efficient manner. We conduct extensive experiments to show the high quality and robust performance of LipRF on both photorealistic 3D stylization and object appearance editing.
ENVIDR: Implicit Differentiable Renderer with Neural Environment Lighting
Recent advances in neural rendering have shown great potential for reconstructing scenes from multiview images. However, accurately representing objects with glossy surfaces remains a challenge for existing methods. In this work, we introduce ENVIDR, a rendering and modeling framework for high-quality rendering and reconstruction of surfaces with challenging specular reflections. To achieve this, we first propose a novel neural renderer with decomposed rendering components to learn the interaction between surface and environment lighting. This renderer is trained using existing physically based renderers and is decoupled from actual scene representations. We then propose an SDF-based neural surface model that leverages this learned neural renderer to represent general scenes. Our model additionally synthesizes indirect illuminations caused by inter-reflections from shiny surfaces by marching surface-reflected rays. We demonstrate that our method outperforms state-of-art methods on challenging shiny scenes, providing high-quality rendering of specular reflections while also enabling material editing and scene relighting.
NeRF-GAN Distillation for Memory-Efficient 3D-Aware Generation with Convolutions
Pose-conditioned convolutional generative models struggle with high-quality 3D-consistent image generation from single-view datasets, due to their lack of sufficient 3D priors. Recently, the integration of Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) and generative models, such as Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), has transformed 3D-aware generation from single-view images. NeRF-GANs exploit the strong inductive bias of 3D neural representations and volumetric rendering at the cost of higher computational complexity. This study aims at revisiting pose-conditioned 2D GANs for memory-efficient 3D-aware generation at inference time by distilling 3D knowledge from pretrained NeRF-GANS. We propose a simple and effective method, based on re-using the well-disentangled latent space of a pre-trained NeRF-GAN in a pose-conditioned convolutional network to directly generate 3D-consistent images corresponding to the underlying 3D representations. Experiments on several datasets demonstrate that the proposed method obtains results comparable with volumetric rendering in terms of quality and 3D consistency while benefiting from the superior computational advantage of convolutional networks. The code will be available at: https://github.com/mshahbazi72/NeRF-GAN-Distillation
FeatureNeRF: Learning Generalizable NeRFs by Distilling Foundation Models
Recent works on generalizable NeRFs have shown promising results on novel view synthesis from single or few images. However, such models have rarely been applied on other downstream tasks beyond synthesis such as semantic understanding and parsing. In this paper, we propose a novel framework named FeatureNeRF to learn generalizable NeRFs by distilling pre-trained vision foundation models (e.g., DINO, Latent Diffusion). FeatureNeRF leverages 2D pre-trained foundation models to 3D space via neural rendering, and then extract deep features for 3D query points from NeRF MLPs. Consequently, it allows to map 2D images to continuous 3D semantic feature volumes, which can be used for various downstream tasks. We evaluate FeatureNeRF on tasks of 2D/3D semantic keypoint transfer and 2D/3D object part segmentation. Our extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of FeatureNeRF as a generalizable 3D semantic feature extractor. Our project page is available at https://jianglongye.com/featurenerf/ .
Balanced Spherical Grid for Egocentric View Synthesis
We present EgoNeRF, a practical solution to reconstruct large-scale real-world environments for VR assets. Given a few seconds of casually captured 360 video, EgoNeRF can efficiently build neural radiance fields which enable high-quality rendering from novel viewpoints. Motivated by the recent acceleration of NeRF using feature grids, we adopt spherical coordinate instead of conventional Cartesian coordinate. Cartesian feature grid is inefficient to represent large-scale unbounded scenes because it has a spatially uniform resolution, regardless of distance from viewers. The spherical parameterization better aligns with the rays of egocentric images, and yet enables factorization for performance enhancement. However, the na\"ive spherical grid suffers from irregularities at two poles, and also cannot represent unbounded scenes. To avoid singularities near poles, we combine two balanced grids, which results in a quasi-uniform angular grid. We also partition the radial grid exponentially and place an environment map at infinity to represent unbounded scenes. Furthermore, with our resampling technique for grid-based methods, we can increase the number of valid samples to train NeRF volume. We extensively evaluate our method in our newly introduced synthetic and real-world egocentric 360 video datasets, and it consistently achieves state-of-the-art performance.
NLOS-NeuS: Non-line-of-sight Neural Implicit Surface
Non-line-of-sight (NLOS) imaging is conducted to infer invisible scenes from indirect light on visible objects. The neural transient field (NeTF) was proposed for representing scenes as neural radiance fields in NLOS scenes. We propose NLOS neural implicit surface (NLOS-NeuS), which extends the NeTF to neural implicit surfaces with a signed distance function (SDF) for reconstructing three-dimensional surfaces in NLOS scenes. We introduce two constraints as loss functions for correctly learning an SDF to avoid non-zero level-set surfaces. We also introduce a lower bound constraint of an SDF based on the geometry of the first-returning photons. The experimental results indicate that these constraints are essential for learning a correct SDF in NLOS scenes. Compared with previous methods with discretized representation, NLOS-NeuS with the neural continuous representation enables us to reconstruct smooth surfaces while preserving fine details in NLOS scenes. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study on neural implicit surfaces with volume rendering in NLOS scenes.
Pre-NeRF 360: Enriching Unbounded Appearances for Neural Radiance Fields
Neural radiance fields (NeRF) appeared recently as a powerful tool to generate realistic views of objects and confined areas. Still, they face serious challenges with open scenes, where the camera has unrestricted movement and content can appear at any distance. In such scenarios, current NeRF-inspired models frequently yield hazy or pixelated outputs, suffer slow training times, and might display irregularities, because of the challenging task of reconstructing an extensive scene from a limited number of images. We propose a new framework to boost the performance of NeRF-based architectures yielding significantly superior outcomes compared to the prior work. Our solution overcomes several obstacles that plagued earlier versions of NeRF, including handling multiple video inputs, selecting keyframes, and extracting poses from real-world frames that are ambiguous and symmetrical. Furthermore, we applied our framework, dubbed as "Pre-NeRF 360", to enable the use of the Nutrition5k dataset in NeRF and introduce an updated version of this dataset, known as the N5k360 dataset.
Oral-NeXF: 3D Oral Reconstruction with Neural X-ray Field from Panoramic Imaging
3D reconstruction of medical images from 2D images has increasingly become a challenging research topic with the advanced development of deep learning methods. Previous work in 3D reconstruction from limited (generally one or two) X-ray images mainly relies on learning from paired 2D and 3D images. In 3D oral reconstruction from panoramic imaging, the model also relies on some prior individual information, such as the dental arch curve or voxel-wise annotations, to restore the curved shape of the mandible during reconstruction. These limitations have hindered the use of single X-ray tomography in clinical applications. To address these challenges, we propose a new model that relies solely on projection data, including imaging direction and projection image, during panoramic scans to reconstruct the 3D oral structure. Our model builds on the neural radiance field by introducing multi-head prediction, dynamic sampling, and adaptive rendering, which accommodates the projection process of panoramic X-ray in dental imaging. Compared to end-to-end learning methods, our method achieves state-of-the-art performance without requiring additional supervision or prior knowledge.
NeAT: Learning Neural Implicit Surfaces with Arbitrary Topologies from Multi-view Images
Recent progress in neural implicit functions has set new state-of-the-art in reconstructing high-fidelity 3D shapes from a collection of images. However, these approaches are limited to closed surfaces as they require the surface to be represented by a signed distance field. In this paper, we propose NeAT, a new neural rendering framework that can learn implicit surfaces with arbitrary topologies from multi-view images. In particular, NeAT represents the 3D surface as a level set of a signed distance function (SDF) with a validity branch for estimating the surface existence probability at the query positions. We also develop a novel neural volume rendering method, which uses SDF and validity to calculate the volume opacity and avoids rendering points with low validity. NeAT supports easy field-to-mesh conversion using the classic Marching Cubes algorithm. Extensive experiments on DTU, MGN, and Deep Fashion 3D datasets indicate that our approach is able to faithfully reconstruct both watertight and non-watertight surfaces. In particular, NeAT significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art methods in the task of open surface reconstruction both quantitatively and qualitatively.
NEMTO: Neural Environment Matting for Novel View and Relighting Synthesis of Transparent Objects
We propose NEMTO, the first end-to-end neural rendering pipeline to model 3D transparent objects with complex geometry and unknown indices of refraction. Commonly used appearance modeling such as the Disney BSDF model cannot accurately address this challenging problem due to the complex light paths bending through refractions and the strong dependency of surface appearance on illumination. With 2D images of the transparent object as input, our method is capable of high-quality novel view and relighting synthesis. We leverage implicit Signed Distance Functions (SDF) to model the object geometry and propose a refraction-aware ray bending network to model the effects of light refraction within the object. Our ray bending network is more tolerant to geometric inaccuracies than traditional physically-based methods for rendering transparent objects. We provide extensive evaluations on both synthetic and real-world datasets to demonstrate our high-quality synthesis and the applicability of our method.
ExtremeNeRF: Few-shot Neural Radiance Fields Under Unconstrained Illumination
In this paper, we propose a new challenge that synthesizes a novel view in a more practical environment, where the number of input multi-view images is limited and illumination variations are significant. Despite recent success, neural radiance fields (NeRF) require a massive amount of input multi-view images taken under constrained illuminations. To address the problem, we suggest ExtremeNeRF, which utilizes occlusion-aware multiview albedo consistency, supported by geometric alignment and depth consistency. We extract intrinsic image components that should be illumination-invariant across different views, enabling direct appearance comparison between the input and novel view under unconstrained illumination. We provide extensive experimental results for an evaluation of the task, using the newly built NeRF Extreme benchmark, which is the first in-the-wild novel view synthesis benchmark taken under multiple viewing directions and varying illuminations. The project page is at https://seokyeong94.github.io/ExtremeNeRF/
Interactive Geometry Editing of Neural Radiance Fields
In this paper, we propose a method that enables interactive geometry editing for neural radiance fields manipulation. We use two proxy cages(inner cage and outer cage) to edit a scene. The inner cage defines the operation target, and the outer cage defines the adjustment space. Various operations apply to the two cages. After cage selection, operations on the inner cage lead to the desired transformation of the inner cage and adjustment of the outer cage. Users can edit the scene with translation, rotation, scaling, or combinations. The operations on the corners and edges of the cage are also supported. Our method does not need any explicit 3D geometry representations. The interactive geometry editing applies directly to the implicit neural radiance fields. Extensive experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach.
DehazeNeRF: Multiple Image Haze Removal and 3D Shape Reconstruction using Neural Radiance Fields
Neural radiance fields (NeRFs) have demonstrated state-of-the-art performance for 3D computer vision tasks, including novel view synthesis and 3D shape reconstruction. However, these methods fail in adverse weather conditions. To address this challenge, we introduce DehazeNeRF as a framework that robustly operates in hazy conditions. DehazeNeRF extends the volume rendering equation by adding physically realistic terms that model atmospheric scattering. By parameterizing these terms using suitable networks that match the physical properties, we introduce effective inductive biases, which, together with the proposed regularizations, allow DehazeNeRF to demonstrate successful multi-view haze removal, novel view synthesis, and 3D shape reconstruction where existing approaches fail.
ContraNeRF: Generalizable Neural Radiance Fields for Synthetic-to-real Novel View Synthesis via Contrastive Learning
Although many recent works have investigated generalizable NeRF-based novel view synthesis for unseen scenes, they seldom consider the synthetic-to-real generalization, which is desired in many practical applications. In this work, we first investigate the effects of synthetic data in synthetic-to-real novel view synthesis and surprisingly observe that models trained with synthetic data tend to produce sharper but less accurate volume densities. For pixels where the volume densities are correct, fine-grained details will be obtained. Otherwise, severe artifacts will be produced. To maintain the advantages of using synthetic data while avoiding its negative effects, we propose to introduce geometry-aware contrastive learning to learn multi-view consistent features with geometric constraints. Meanwhile, we adopt cross-view attention to further enhance the geometry perception of features by querying features across input views. Experiments demonstrate that under the synthetic-to-real setting, our method can render images with higher quality and better fine-grained details, outperforming existing generalizable novel view synthesis methods in terms of PSNR, SSIM, and LPIPS. When trained on real data, our method also achieves state-of-the-art results.
SKED: Sketch-guided Text-based 3D Editing
Text-to-image diffusion models are gradually introduced into computer graphics, recently enabling the development of Text-to-3D pipelines in an open domain. However, for interactive editing purposes, local manipulations of content through a simplistic textual interface can be arduous. Incorporating user guided sketches with Text-to-image pipelines offers users more intuitive control. Still, as state-of-the-art Text-to-3D pipelines rely on optimizing Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) through gradients from arbitrary rendering views, conditioning on sketches is not straightforward. In this paper, we present SKED, a technique for editing 3D shapes represented by NeRFs. Our technique utilizes as few as two guiding sketches from different views to alter an existing neural field. The edited region respects the prompt semantics through a pre-trained diffusion model. To ensure the generated output adheres to the provided sketches, we propose novel loss functions to generate the desired edits while preserving the density and radiance of the base instance. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed method through several qualitative and quantitative experiments.
NeRF-LOAM: Neural Implicit Representation for Large-Scale Incremental LiDAR Odometry and Mapping
Simultaneously odometry and mapping using LiDAR data is an important task for mobile systems to achieve full autonomy in large-scale environments. However, most existing LiDAR-based methods prioritize tracking quality over reconstruction quality. Although the recently developed neural radiance fields (NeRF) have shown promising advances in implicit reconstruction for indoor environments, the problem of simultaneous odometry and mapping for large-scale scenarios using incremental LiDAR data remains unexplored. To bridge this gap, in this paper, we propose a novel NeRF-based LiDAR odometry and mapping approach, NeRF-LOAM, consisting of three modules neural odometry, neural mapping, and mesh reconstruction. All these modules utilize our proposed neural signed distance function, which separates LiDAR points into ground and non-ground points to reduce Z-axis drift, optimizes odometry and voxel embeddings concurrently, and in the end generates dense smooth mesh maps of the environment. Moreover, this joint optimization allows our NeRF-LOAM to be pre-trained free and exhibit strong generalization abilities when applied to different environments. Extensive evaluations on three publicly available datasets demonstrate that our approach achieves state-of-the-art odometry and mapping performance, as well as a strong generalization in large-scale environments utilizing LiDAR data. Furthermore, we perform multiple ablation studies to validate the effectiveness of our network design. The implementation of our approach will be made available at https://github.com/JunyuanDeng/NeRF-LOAM.
StyleRF: Zero-shot 3D Style Transfer of Neural Radiance Fields
3D style transfer aims to render stylized novel views of a 3D scene with multi-view consistency. However, most existing work suffers from a three-way dilemma over accurate geometry reconstruction, high-quality stylization, and being generalizable to arbitrary new styles. We propose StyleRF (Style Radiance Fields), an innovative 3D style transfer technique that resolves the three-way dilemma by performing style transformation within the feature space of a radiance field. StyleRF employs an explicit grid of high-level features to represent 3D scenes, with which high-fidelity geometry can be reliably restored via volume rendering. In addition, it transforms the grid features according to the reference style which directly leads to high-quality zero-shot style transfer. StyleRF consists of two innovative designs. The first is sampling-invariant content transformation that makes the transformation invariant to the holistic statistics of the sampled 3D points and accordingly ensures multi-view consistency. The second is deferred style transformation of 2D feature maps which is equivalent to the transformation of 3D points but greatly reduces memory footprint without degrading multi-view consistency. Extensive experiments show that StyleRF achieves superior 3D stylization quality with precise geometry reconstruction and it can generalize to various new styles in a zero-shot manner.
3D Data Augmentation for Driving Scenes on Camera
Driving scenes are extremely diverse and complicated that it is impossible to collect all cases with human effort alone. While data augmentation is an effective technique to enrich the training data, existing methods for camera data in autonomous driving applications are confined to the 2D image plane, which may not optimally increase data diversity in 3D real-world scenarios. To this end, we propose a 3D data augmentation approach termed Drive-3DAug, aiming at augmenting the driving scenes on camera in the 3D space. We first utilize Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) to reconstruct the 3D models of background and foreground objects. Then, augmented driving scenes can be obtained by placing the 3D objects with adapted location and orientation at the pre-defined valid region of backgrounds. As such, the training database could be effectively scaled up. However, the 3D object modeling is constrained to the image quality and the limited viewpoints. To overcome these problems, we modify the original NeRF by introducing a geometric rectified loss and a symmetric-aware training strategy. We evaluate our method for the camera-only monocular 3D detection task on the Waymo and nuScences datasets. The proposed data augmentation approach contributes to a gain of 1.7% and 1.4% in terms of detection accuracy, on Waymo and nuScences respectively. Furthermore, the constructed 3D models serve as digital driving assets and could be recycled for different detectors or other 3D perception tasks.
$α$Surf: Implicit Surface Reconstruction for Semi-Transparent and Thin Objects with Decoupled Geometry and Opacity
Implicit surface representations such as the signed distance function (SDF) have emerged as a promising approach for image-based surface reconstruction. However, existing optimization methods assume solid surfaces and are therefore unable to properly reconstruct semi-transparent surfaces and thin structures, which also exhibit low opacity due to the blending effect with the background. While neural radiance field (NeRF) based methods can model semi-transparency and achieve photo-realistic quality in synthesized novel views, their volumetric geometry representation tightly couples geometry and opacity, and therefore cannot be easily converted into surfaces without introducing artifacts. We present $\alpha$Surf, a novel surface representation with decoupled geometry and opacity for the reconstruction of semi-transparent and thin surfaces where the colors mix. Ray-surface intersections on our representation can be found in closed-form via analytical solutions of cubic polynomials, avoiding Monte-Carlo sampling and is fully differentiable by construction. Our qualitative and quantitative evaluations show that our approach can accurately reconstruct surfaces with semi-transparent and thin parts with fewer artifacts, achieving better reconstruction quality than state-of-the-art SDF and NeRF methods. Website: https://alphasurf.netlify.app/
Single-view Neural Radiance Fields with Depth Teacher
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have been proposed for photorealistic novel view rendering. However, it requires many different views of one scene for training. Moreover, it has poor generalizations to new scenes and requires retraining or fine-tuning on each scene. In this paper, we develop a new NeRF model for novel view synthesis using only a single image as input. We propose to combine the (coarse) planar rendering and the (fine) volume rendering to achieve higher rendering quality and better generalizations. We also design a depth teacher net that predicts dense pseudo depth maps to supervise the joint rendering mechanism and boost the learning of consistent 3D geometry. We evaluate our method on three challenging datasets. It outperforms state-of-the-art single-view NeRFs by achieving 5$\sim$20\% improvements in PSNR and reducing 20$\sim$50\% of the errors in the depth rendering. It also shows excellent generalization abilities to unseen data without the need to fine-tune on each new scene.
NeRFMeshing: Distilling Neural Radiance Fields into Geometrically-Accurate 3D Meshes
With the introduction of Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs), novel view synthesis has recently made a big leap forward. At the core, NeRF proposes that each 3D point can emit radiance, allowing to conduct view synthesis using differentiable volumetric rendering. While neural radiance fields can accurately represent 3D scenes for computing the image rendering, 3D meshes are still the main scene representation supported by most computer graphics and simulation pipelines, enabling tasks such as real time rendering and physics-based simulations. Obtaining 3D meshes from neural radiance fields still remains an open challenge since NeRFs are optimized for view synthesis, not enforcing an accurate underlying geometry on the radiance field. We thus propose a novel compact and flexible architecture that enables easy 3D surface reconstruction from any NeRF-driven approach. Upon having trained the radiance field, we distill the volumetric 3D representation into a Signed Surface Approximation Network, allowing easy extraction of the 3D mesh and appearance. Our final 3D mesh is physically accurate and can be rendered in real time on an array of devices.
NeRFtrinsic Four: An End-To-End Trainable NeRF Jointly Optimizing Diverse Intrinsic and Extrinsic Camera Parameters
Novel view synthesis using neural radiance fields (NeRF) is the state-of-the-art technique for generating high-quality images from novel viewpoints. Existing methods require a priori knowledge about extrinsic and intrinsic camera parameters. This limits their applicability to synthetic scenes, or real-world scenarios with the necessity of a preprocessing step. Current research on the joint optimization of camera parameters and NeRF focuses on refining noisy extrinsic camera parameters and often relies on the preprocessing of intrinsic camera parameters. Further approaches are limited to cover only one single camera intrinsic. To address these limitations, we propose a novel end-to-end trainable approach called NeRFtrinsic Four. We utilize Gaussian Fourier features to estimate extrinsic camera parameters and dynamically predict varying intrinsic camera parameters through the supervision of the projection error. Our approach outperforms existing joint optimization methods on LLFF and BLEFF. In addition to these existing datasets, we introduce a new dataset called iFF with varying intrinsic camera parameters. NeRFtrinsic Four is a step forward in joint optimization NeRF-based view synthesis and enables more realistic and flexible rendering in real-world scenarios with varying camera parameters.
Learning a Room with the Occ-SDF Hybrid: Signed Distance Function Mingled with Occupancy Aids Scene Representation
Implicit neural rendering, which uses signed distance function (SDF) representation with geometric priors (such as depth or surface normal), has led to impressive progress in the surface reconstruction of large-scale scenes. However, applying this method to reconstruct a room-level scene from images may miss structures in low-intensity areas or small and thin objects. We conducted experiments on three datasets to identify limitations of the original color rendering loss and priors-embedded SDF scene representation.   We found that the color rendering loss results in optimization bias against low-intensity areas, causing gradient vanishing and leaving these areas unoptimized. To address this issue, we propose a feature-based color rendering loss that utilizes non-zero feature values to bring back optimization signals. Additionally, the SDF representation can be influenced by objects along a ray path, disrupting the monotonic change of SDF values when a single object is present. To counteract this, we explore using the occupancy representation, which encodes each point separately and is unaffected by objects along a querying ray. Our experimental results demonstrate that the joint forces of the feature-based rendering loss and Occ-SDF hybrid representation scheme can provide high-quality reconstruction results, especially in challenging room-level scenarios. The code would be released.
Re-ReND: Real-time Rendering of NeRFs across Devices
This paper proposes a novel approach for rendering a pre-trained Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) in real-time on resource-constrained devices. We introduce Re-ReND, a method enabling Real-time Rendering of NeRFs across Devices. Re-ReND is designed to achieve real-time performance by converting the NeRF into a representation that can be efficiently processed by standard graphics pipelines. The proposed method distills the NeRF by extracting the learned density into a mesh, while the learned color information is factorized into a set of matrices that represent the scene's light field. Factorization implies the field is queried via inexpensive MLP-free matrix multiplications, while using a light field allows rendering a pixel by querying the field a single time-as opposed to hundreds of queries when employing a radiance field. Since the proposed representation can be implemented using a fragment shader, it can be directly integrated with standard rasterization frameworks. Our flexible implementation can render a NeRF in real-time with low memory requirements and on a wide range of resource-constrained devices, including mobiles and AR/VR headsets. Notably, we find that Re-ReND can achieve over a 2.6-fold increase in rendering speed versus the state-of-the-art without perceptible losses in quality.
RefiNeRF: Modelling dynamic neural radiance fields with inconsistent or missing camera parameters
Novel view synthesis (NVS) is a challenging task in computer vision that involves synthesizing new views of a scene from a limited set of input images. Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have emerged as a powerful approach to address this problem, but they require accurate knowledge of camera \textit{intrinsic} and \textit{extrinsic} parameters. Traditionally, structure-from-motion (SfM) and multi-view stereo (MVS) approaches have been used to extract camera parameters, but these methods can be unreliable and may fail in certain cases. In this paper, we propose a novel technique that leverages unposed images from dynamic datasets, such as the NVIDIA dynamic scenes dataset, to learn camera parameters directly from data. Our approach is highly extensible and can be integrated into existing NeRF architectures with minimal modifications. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method on a variety of static and dynamic scenes and show that it outperforms traditional SfM and MVS approaches. The code for our method is publicly available at \href{https://github.com/redacted/refinerf}{https://github.com/redacted/refinerf}. Our approach offers a promising new direction for improving the accuracy and robustness of NVS using NeRF, and we anticipate that it will be a valuable tool for a wide range of applications in computer vision and graphics.
Harnessing Low-Frequency Neural Fields for Few-Shot View Synthesis
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have led to breakthroughs in the novel view synthesis problem. Positional Encoding (P.E.) is a critical factor that brings the impressive performance of NeRF, where low-dimensional coordinates are mapped to high-dimensional space to better recover scene details. However, blindly increasing the frequency of P.E. leads to overfitting when the reconstruction problem is highly underconstrained, \eg, few-shot images for training. We harness low-frequency neural fields to regularize high-frequency neural fields from overfitting to better address the problem of few-shot view synthesis. We propose reconstructing with a low-frequency only field and then finishing details with a high-frequency equipped field. Unlike most existing solutions that regularize the output space (\ie, rendered images), our regularization is conducted in the input space (\ie, signal frequency). We further propose a simple-yet-effective strategy for tuning the frequency to avoid overfitting few-shot inputs: enforcing consistency among the frequency domain of rendered 2D images. Thanks to the input space regularizing scheme, our method readily applies to inputs beyond spatial locations, such as the time dimension in dynamic scenes. Comparisons with state-of-the-art on both synthetic and natural datasets validate the effectiveness of our proposed solution for few-shot view synthesis. Code is available at \href{https://github.com/lsongx/halo}{https://github.com/lsongx/halo}.
MELON: NeRF with Unposed Images Using Equivalence Class Estimation
Neural radiance fields enable novel-view synthesis and scene reconstruction with photorealistic quality from a few images, but require known and accurate camera poses. Conventional pose estimation algorithms fail on smooth or self-similar scenes, while methods performing inverse rendering from unposed views require a rough initialization of the camera orientations. The main difficulty of pose estimation lies in real-life objects being almost invariant under certain transformations, making the photometric distance between rendered views non-convex with respect to the camera parameters. Using an equivalence relation that matches the distribution of local minima in camera space, we reduce this space to its quotient set, in which pose estimation becomes a more convex problem. Using a neural-network to regularize pose estimation, we demonstrate that our method - MELON - can reconstruct a neural radiance field from unposed images with state-of-the-art accuracy while requiring ten times fewer views than adversarial approaches.
Let 2D Diffusion Model Know 3D-Consistency for Robust Text-to-3D Generation
Text-to-3D generation has shown rapid progress in recent days with the advent of score distillation, a methodology of using pretrained text-to-2D diffusion models to optimize neural radiance field (NeRF) in the zero-shot setting. However, the lack of 3D awareness in the 2D diffusion models destabilizes score distillation-based methods from reconstructing a plausible 3D scene. To address this issue, we propose 3DFuse, a novel framework that incorporates 3D awareness into pretrained 2D diffusion models, enhancing the robustness and 3D consistency of score distillation-based methods. We realize this by first constructing a coarse 3D structure of a given text prompt and then utilizing projected, view-specific depth map as a condition for the diffusion model. Additionally, we introduce a training strategy that enables the 2D diffusion model learns to handle the errors and sparsity within the coarse 3D structure for robust generation, as well as a method for ensuring semantic consistency throughout all viewpoints of the scene. Our framework surpasses the limitations of prior arts, and has significant implications for 3D consistent generation of 2D diffusion models.
I$^2$-SDF: Intrinsic Indoor Scene Reconstruction and Editing via Raytracing in Neural SDFs
In this work, we present I$^2$-SDF, a new method for intrinsic indoor scene reconstruction and editing using differentiable Monte Carlo raytracing on neural signed distance fields (SDFs). Our holistic neural SDF-based framework jointly recovers the underlying shapes, incident radiance and materials from multi-view images. We introduce a novel bubble loss for fine-grained small objects and error-guided adaptive sampling scheme to largely improve the reconstruction quality on large-scale indoor scenes. Further, we propose to decompose the neural radiance field into spatially-varying material of the scene as a neural field through surface-based, differentiable Monte Carlo raytracing and emitter semantic segmentations, which enables physically based and photorealistic scene relighting and editing applications. Through a number of qualitative and quantitative experiments, we demonstrate the superior quality of our method on indoor scene reconstruction, novel view synthesis, and scene editing compared to state-of-the-art baselines.
FreeNeRF: Improving Few-shot Neural Rendering with Free Frequency Regularization
Novel view synthesis with sparse inputs is a challenging problem for neural radiance fields (NeRF). Recent efforts alleviate this challenge by introducing external supervision, such as pre-trained models and extra depth signals, and by non-trivial patch-based rendering. In this paper, we present Frequency regularized NeRF (FreeNeRF), a surprisingly simple baseline that outperforms previous methods with minimal modifications to the plain NeRF. We analyze the key challenges in few-shot neural rendering and find that frequency plays an important role in NeRF's training. Based on the analysis, we propose two regularization terms. One is to regularize the frequency range of NeRF's inputs, while the other is to penalize the near-camera density fields. Both techniques are ``free lunches'' at no additional computational cost. We demonstrate that even with one line of code change, the original NeRF can achieve similar performance as other complicated methods in the few-shot setting. FreeNeRF achieves state-of-the-art performance across diverse datasets, including Blender, DTU, and LLFF. We hope this simple baseline will motivate a rethinking of the fundamental role of frequency in NeRF's training under the low-data regime and beyond.
