NAVI: Category-Agnostic Image Collections with High-Quality 3D Shape and Pose Annotations
Recent advances in neural reconstruction enable high-quality 3D object reconstruction from casually captured image collections. Current techniques mostly analyze their progress on relatively simple image collections where Structure-from-Motion (SfM) techniques can provide ground-truth (GT) camera poses. We note that SfM techniques tend to fail on in-the-wild image collections such as image search results with varying backgrounds and illuminations. To enable systematic research progress on 3D reconstruction from casual image captures, we propose NAVI: a new dataset of category-agnostic image collections of objects with high-quality 3D scans along with per-image 2D-3D alignments providing near-perfect GT camera parameters. These 2D-3D alignments allow us to extract accurate derivative annotations such as dense pixel correspondences, depth and segmentation maps. We demonstrate the use of NAVI image collections on different problem settings and show that NAVI enables more thorough evaluations that were not possible with existing datasets. We believe NAVI is beneficial for systematic research progress on 3D reconstruction and correspondence estimation. Project page: https://navidataset.github.io
Yes, we CANN: Constrained Approximate Nearest Neighbors for local feature-based visual localization
Large-scale visual localization systems continue to rely on 3D point clouds built from image collections using structure-from-motion. While the 3D points in these models are represented using local image features, directly matching a query image's local features against the point cloud is challenging due to the scale of the nearest-neighbor search problem. Many recent approaches to visual localization have thus proposed a hybrid method, where first a global (per image) embedding is used to retrieve a small subset of database images, and local features of the query are matched only against those. It seems to have become common belief that global embeddings are critical for said image-retrieval in visual localization, despite the significant downside of having to compute two feature types for each query image. In this paper, we take a step back from this assumption and propose Constrained Approximate Nearest Neighbors (CANN), a joint solution of k-nearest-neighbors across both the geometry and appearance space using only local features. We first derive the theoretical foundation for k-nearest-neighbor retrieval across multiple metrics and then showcase how CANN improves visual localization. Our experiments on public localization benchmarks demonstrate that our method significantly outperforms both state-of-the-art global feature-based retrieval and approaches using local feature aggregation schemes. Moreover, it is an order of magnitude faster in both index and query time than feature aggregation schemes for these datasets. Code will be released.
3D reconstruction using Structure for Motion
We are working towards 3D reconstruction of indoor spaces using a pair of HDR cameras in a stereo vision configuration mounted on an indoor mobile floor robot that captures various textures and spatial features as 2D images and this data is simultaneously utilized as a feed to our algorithm which will allow us to visualize the depth map.
Self-supervised Interest Point Detection and Description for Fisheye and Perspective Images
Keypoint detection and matching is a fundamental task in many computer vision problems, from shape reconstruction, to structure from motion, to AR/VR applications and robotics. It is a well-studied problem with remarkable successes such as SIFT, and more recent deep learning approaches. While great robustness is exhibited by these techniques with respect to noise, illumination variation, and rigid motion transformations, less attention has been placed on image distortion sensitivity. In this work, we focus on the case when this is caused by the geometry of the cameras used for image acquisition, and consider the keypoint detection and matching problem between the hybrid scenario of a fisheye and a projective image. We build on a state-of-the-art approach and derive a self-supervised procedure that enables training an interest point detector and descriptor network. We also collected two new datasets for additional training and testing in this unexplored scenario, and we demonstrate that current approaches are suboptimal because they are designed to work in traditional projective conditions, while the proposed approach turns out to be the most effective.
FlowCam: Training Generalizable 3D Radiance Fields without Camera Poses via Pixel-Aligned Scene Flow
Reconstruction of 3D neural fields from posed images has emerged as a promising method for self-supervised representation learning. The key challenge preventing the deployment of these 3D scene learners on large-scale video data is their dependence on precise camera poses from structure-from-motion, which is prohibitively expensive to run at scale. We propose a method that jointly reconstructs camera poses and 3D neural scene representations online and in a single forward pass. We estimate poses by first lifting frame-to-frame optical flow to 3D scene flow via differentiable rendering, preserving locality and shift-equivariance of the image processing backbone. SE(3) camera pose estimation is then performed via a weighted least-squares fit to the scene flow field. This formulation enables us to jointly supervise pose estimation and a generalizable neural scene representation via re-rendering the input video, and thus, train end-to-end and fully self-supervised on real-world video datasets. We demonstrate that our method performs robustly on diverse, real-world video, notably on sequences traditionally challenging to optimization-based pose estimation techniques.
SIDAR: Synthetic Image Dataset for Alignment & Restoration
Image alignment and image restoration are classical computer vision tasks. However, there is still a lack of datasets that provide enough data to train and evaluate end-to-end deep learning models. Obtaining ground-truth data for image alignment requires sophisticated structure-from-motion methods or optical flow systems that often do not provide enough data variance, i.e., typically providing a high number of image correspondences, while only introducing few changes of scenery within the underlying image sequences. Alternative approaches utilize random perspective distortions on existing image data. However, this only provides trivial distortions, lacking the complexity and variance of real-world scenarios. Instead, our proposed data augmentation helps to overcome the issue of data scarcity by using 3D rendering: images are added as textures onto a plane, then varying lighting conditions, shadows, and occlusions are added to the scene. The scene is rendered from multiple viewpoints, generating perspective distortions more consistent with real-world scenarios, with homographies closely resembling those of camera projections rather than randomized homographies. For each scene, we provide a sequence of distorted images with corresponding occlusion masks, homographies, and ground-truth labels. The resulting dataset can serve as a training and evaluation set for a multitude of tasks involving image alignment and artifact removal, such as deep homography estimation, dense image matching, 2D bundle adjustment, inpainting, shadow removal, denoising, content retrieval, and background subtraction. Our data generation pipeline is customizable and can be applied to any existing dataset, serving as a data augmentation to further improve the feature learning of any existing method.
Eiffel Tower: A Deep-Sea Underwater Dataset for Long-Term Visual Localization
Visual localization plays an important role in the positioning and navigation of robotics systems within previously visited environments. When visits occur over long periods of time, changes in the environment related to seasons or day-night cycles present a major challenge. Under water, the sources of variability are due to other factors such as water conditions or growth of marine organisms. Yet it remains a major obstacle and a much less studied one, partly due to the lack of data. This paper presents a new deep-sea dataset to benchmark underwater long-term visual localization. The dataset is composed of images from four visits to the same hydrothermal vent edifice over the course of five years. Camera poses and a common geometry of the scene were estimated using navigation data and Structure-from-Motion. This serves as a reference when evaluating visual localization techniques. An analysis of the data provides insights about the major changes observed throughout the years. Furthermore, several well-established visual localization methods are evaluated on the dataset, showing there is still room for improvement in underwater long-term visual localization. The data is made publicly available at https://www.seanoe.org/data/00810/92226/.
Rotation Synchronization via Deep Matrix Factorization
In this paper we address the rotation synchronization problem, where the objective is to recover absolute rotations starting from pairwise ones, where the unknowns and the measures are represented as nodes and edges of a graph, respectively. This problem is an essential task for structure from motion and simultaneous localization and mapping. We focus on the formulation of synchronization via neural networks, which has only recently begun to be explored in the literature. Inspired by deep matrix completion, we express rotation synchronization in terms of matrix factorization with a deep neural network. Our formulation exhibits implicit regularization properties and, more importantly, is unsupervised, whereas previous deep approaches are supervised. Our experiments show that we achieve comparable accuracy to the closest competitors in most scenes, while working under weaker assumptions.
A Comparative Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) 3D Analysis of Camera Poses from HoloLens Trajectories and Structure from Motion
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) are trained using a set of camera poses and associated images as input to estimate density and color values for each position. The position-dependent density learning is of particular interest for photogrammetry, enabling 3D reconstruction by querying and filtering the NeRF coordinate system based on the object density. While traditional methods like Structure from Motion are commonly used for camera pose calculation in pre-processing for NeRFs, the HoloLens offers an interesting interface for extracting the required input data directly. We present a workflow for high-resolution 3D reconstructions almost directly from HoloLens data using NeRFs. Thereby, different investigations are considered: Internal camera poses from the HoloLens trajectory via a server application, and external camera poses from Structure from Motion, both with an enhanced variant applied through pose refinement. Results show that the internal camera poses lead to NeRF convergence with a PSNR of 25\,dB with a simple rotation around the x-axis and enable a 3D reconstruction. Pose refinement enables comparable quality compared to external camera poses, resulting in improved training process with a PSNR of 27\,dB and a better 3D reconstruction. Overall, NeRF reconstructions outperform the conventional photogrammetric dense reconstruction using Multi-View Stereo in terms of completeness and level of detail.
Fusing Structure from Motion and Simulation-Augmented Pose Regression from Optical Flow for Challenging Indoor Environments
The localization of objects is a crucial task in various applications such as robotics, virtual and augmented reality, and the transportation of goods in warehouses. Recent advances in deep learning have enabled the localization using monocular visual cameras. While structure from motion (SfM) predicts the absolute pose from a point cloud, absolute pose regression (APR) methods learn a semantic understanding of the environment through neural networks. However, both fields face challenges caused by the environment such as motion blur, lighting changes, repetitive patterns, and feature-less structures. This study aims to address these challenges by incorporating additional information and regularizing the absolute pose using relative pose regression (RPR) methods. The optical flow between consecutive images is computed using the Lucas-Kanade algorithm, and the relative pose is predicted using an auxiliary small recurrent convolutional network. The fusion of absolute and relative poses is a complex task due to the mismatch between the global and local coordinate systems. State-of-the-art methods fusing absolute and relative poses use pose graph optimization (PGO) to regularize the absolute pose predictions using relative poses. In this work, we propose recurrent fusion networks to optimally align absolute and relative pose predictions to improve the absolute pose prediction. We evaluate eight different recurrent units and construct a simulation environment to pre-train the APR and RPR networks for better generalized training. Additionally, we record a large database of different scenarios in a challenging large-scale indoor environment that mimics a warehouse with transportation robots. We conduct hyperparameter searches and experiments to show the effectiveness of our recurrent fusion method compared to PGO.
Visual Localization using Imperfect 3D Models from the Internet
Visual localization is a core component in many applications, including augmented reality (AR). Localization algorithms compute the camera pose of a query image w.r.t. a scene representation, which is typically built from images. This often requires capturing and storing large amounts of data, followed by running Structure-from-Motion (SfM) algorithms. An interesting, and underexplored, source of data for building scene representations are 3D models that are readily available on the Internet, e.g., hand-drawn CAD models, 3D models generated from building footprints, or from aerial images. These models allow to perform visual localization right away without the time-consuming scene capturing and model building steps. Yet, it also comes with challenges as the available 3D models are often imperfect reflections of reality. E.g., the models might only have generic or no textures at all, might only provide a simple approximation of the scene geometry, or might be stretched. This paper studies how the imperfections of these models affect localization accuracy. We create a new benchmark for this task and provide a detailed experimental evaluation based on multiple 3D models per scene. We show that 3D models from the Internet show promise as an easy-to-obtain scene representation. At the same time, there is significant room for improvement for visual localization pipelines. To foster research on this interesting and challenging task, we release our benchmark at v-pnk.github.io/cadloc.
Photometric Correction for Infrared Sensors
Infrared thermography has been widely used in several domains to capture and measure temperature distributions across surfaces and objects. This methodology can be further expanded to 3D applications if the spatial distribution of the temperature distribution is available. Structure from Motion (SfM) is a photometric range imaging technique that makes it possible to obtain 3D renderings from a cloud of 2D images. To explore the possibility of 3D reconstruction via SfM from infrared images, this article proposes a photometric correction model for infrared sensors based on temperature constancy. Photometric correction is accomplished by estimating the scene irradiance as the values from the solution to a differential equation for microbolometer pixel excitation with unknown coefficients and initial conditions. The model was integrated into an SfM framework and experimental evaluations demonstrate the contribution of the photometric correction for improving the estimates of both the camera motion and the scene structure. Further, experiments show that the reconstruction quality from the corrected infrared imagery achieves performance on par with state-of-the-art reconstruction using RGB sensors.
DualRefine: Self-Supervised Depth and Pose Estimation Through Iterative Epipolar Sampling and Refinement Toward Equilibrium
Self-supervised multi-frame depth estimation achieves high accuracy by computing matching costs of pixel correspondences between adjacent frames, injecting geometric information into the network. These pixel-correspondence candidates are computed based on the relative pose estimates between the frames. Accurate pose predictions are essential for precise matching cost computation as they influence the epipolar geometry. Furthermore, improved depth estimates can, in turn, be used to align pose estimates.   Inspired by traditional structure-from-motion (SfM) principles, we propose the DualRefine model, which tightly couples depth and pose estimation through a feedback loop. Our novel update pipeline uses a deep equilibrium model framework to iteratively refine depth estimates and a hidden state of feature maps by computing local matching costs based on epipolar geometry. Importantly, we used the refined depth estimates and feature maps to compute pose updates at each step. This update in the pose estimates slowly alters the epipolar geometry during the refinement process. Experimental results on the KITTI dataset demonstrate competitive depth prediction and odometry prediction performance surpassing published self-supervised baselines.
Semantic Validation in Structure from Motion
The Structure from Motion (SfM) challenge in computer vision is the process of recovering the 3D structure of a scene from a series of projective measurements that are calculated from a collection of 2D images, taken from different perspectives. SfM consists of three main steps; feature detection and matching, camera motion estimation, and recovery of 3D structure from estimated intrinsic and extrinsic parameters and features.   A problem encountered in SfM is that scenes lacking texture or with repetitive features can cause erroneous feature matching between frames. Semantic segmentation offers a route to validate and correct SfM models by labelling pixels in the input images with the use of a deep convolutional neural network. The semantic and geometric properties associated with classes in the scene can be taken advantage of to apply prior constraints to each class of object. The SfM pipeline COLMAP and semantic segmentation pipeline DeepLab were used. This, along with planar reconstruction of the dense model, were used to determine erroneous points that may be occluded from the calculated camera position, given the semantic label, and thus prior constraint of the reconstructed plane. Herein, semantic segmentation is integrated into SfM to apply priors on the 3D point cloud, given the object detection in the 2D input images. Additionally, the semantic labels of matched keypoints are compared and inconsistent semantically labelled points discarded. Furthermore, semantic labels on input images are used for the removal of objects associated with motion in the output SfM models. The proposed approach is evaluated on a data-set of 1102 images of a repetitive architecture scene. This project offers a novel method for improved validation of 3D SfM models.
Learning Internal Representations of 3D Transformations from 2D Projected Inputs
When interacting in a three dimensional world, humans must estimate 3D structure from visual inputs projected down to two dimensional retinal images. It has been shown that humans use the persistence of object shape over motion-induced transformations as a cue to resolve depth ambiguity when solving this underconstrained problem. With the aim of understanding how biological vision systems may internally represent 3D transformations, we propose a computational model, based on a generative manifold model, which can be used to infer 3D structure from the motion of 2D points. Our model can also learn representations of the transformations with minimal supervision, providing a proof of concept for how humans may develop internal representations on a developmental or evolutionary time scale. Focused on rotational motion, we show how our model infers depth from moving 2D projected points, learns 3D rotational transformations from 2D training stimuli, and compares to human performance on psychophysical structure-from-motion experiments.
3D Line Mapping Revisited
In contrast to sparse keypoints, a handful of line segments can concisely encode the high-level scene layout, as they often delineate the main structural elements. In addition to offering strong geometric cues, they are also omnipresent in urban landscapes and indoor scenes. Despite their apparent advantages, current line-based reconstruction methods are far behind their point-based counterparts. In this paper we aim to close the gap by introducing LIMAP, a library for 3D line mapping that robustly and efficiently creates 3D line maps from multi-view imagery. This is achieved through revisiting the degeneracy problem of line triangulation, carefully crafted scoring and track building, and exploiting structural priors such as line coincidence, parallelism, and orthogonality. Our code integrates seamlessly with existing point-based Structure-from-Motion methods and can leverage their 3D points to further improve the line reconstruction. Furthermore, as a byproduct, the method is able to recover 3D association graphs between lines and points / vanishing points (VPs). In thorough experiments, we show that LIMAP significantly outperforms existing approaches for 3D line mapping. Our robust 3D line maps also open up new research directions. We show two example applications: visual localization and bundle adjustment, where integrating lines alongside points yields the best results. Code is available at https://github.com/cvg/limap.
TMO: Textured Mesh Acquisition of Objects with a Mobile Device by using Differentiable Rendering
We present a new pipeline for acquiring a textured mesh in the wild with a single smartphone which offers access to images, depth maps, and valid poses. Our method first introduces an RGBD-aided structure from motion, which can yield filtered depth maps and refines camera poses guided by corresponding depth. Then, we adopt the neural implicit surface reconstruction method, which allows for high-quality mesh and develops a new training process for applying a regularization provided by classical multi-view stereo methods. Moreover, we apply a differentiable rendering to fine-tune incomplete texture maps and generate textures which are perceptually closer to the original scene. Our pipeline can be applied to any common objects in the real world without the need for either in-the-lab environments or accurate mask images. We demonstrate results of captured objects with complex shapes and validate our method numerically against existing 3D reconstruction and texture mapping methods.
On the Importance of Accurate Geometry Data for Dense 3D Vision Tasks
Learning-based methods to solve dense 3D vision problems typically train on 3D sensor data. The respectively used principle of measuring distances provides advantages and drawbacks. These are typically not compared nor discussed in the literature due to a lack of multi-modal datasets. Texture-less regions are problematic for structure from motion and stereo, reflective material poses issues for active sensing, and distances for translucent objects are intricate to measure with existing hardware. Training on inaccurate or corrupt data induces model bias and hampers generalisation capabilities. These effects remain unnoticed if the sensor measurement is considered as ground truth during the evaluation. This paper investigates the effect of sensor errors for the dense 3D vision tasks of depth estimation and reconstruction. We rigorously show the significant impact of sensor characteristics on the learned predictions and notice generalisation issues arising from various technologies in everyday household environments. For evaluation, we introduce a carefully designed dataset\footnote{dataset available at https://github.com/Junggy/HAMMER-dataset} comprising measurements from commodity sensors, namely D-ToF, I-ToF, passive/active stereo, and monocular RGB+P. Our study quantifies the considerable sensor noise impact and paves the way to improved dense vision estimates and targeted data fusion.
Seeing Through the Glass: Neural 3D Reconstruction of Object Inside a Transparent Container
In this paper, we define a new problem of recovering the 3D geometry of an object confined in a transparent enclosure. We also propose a novel method for solving this challenging problem. Transparent enclosures pose challenges of multiple light reflections and refractions at the interface between different propagation media e.g. air or glass. These multiple reflections and refractions cause serious image distortions which invalidate the single viewpoint assumption. Hence the 3D geometry of such objects cannot be reliably reconstructed using existing methods, such as traditional structure from motion or modern neural reconstruction methods. We solve this problem by explicitly modeling the scene as two distinct sub-spaces, inside and outside the transparent enclosure. We use an existing neural reconstruction method (NeuS) that implicitly represents the geometry and appearance of the inner subspace. In order to account for complex light interactions, we develop a hybrid rendering strategy that combines volume rendering with ray tracing. We then recover the underlying geometry and appearance of the model by minimizing the difference between the real and hybrid rendered images. We evaluate our method on both synthetic and real data. Experiment results show that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art (SOTA) methods. Codes and data will be available at https://github.com/hirotong/ReNeuS
Progressively Optimized Local Radiance Fields for Robust View Synthesis
We present an algorithm for reconstructing the radiance field of a large-scale scene from a single casually captured video. The task poses two core challenges. First, most existing radiance field reconstruction approaches rely on accurate pre-estimated camera poses from Structure-from-Motion algorithms, which frequently fail on in-the-wild videos. Second, using a single, global radiance field with finite representational capacity does not scale to longer trajectories in an unbounded scene. For handling unknown poses, we jointly estimate the camera poses with radiance field in a progressive manner. We show that progressive optimization significantly improves the robustness of the reconstruction. For handling large unbounded scenes, we dynamically allocate new local radiance fields trained with frames within a temporal window. This further improves robustness (e.g., performs well even under moderate pose drifts) and allows us to scale to large scenes. Our extensive evaluation on the Tanks and Temples dataset and our collected outdoor dataset, Static Hikes, show that our approach compares favorably with the state-of-the-art.
RefiNeRF: Modelling dynamic neural radiance fields with inconsistent or missing camera parameters
Novel view synthesis (NVS) is a challenging task in computer vision that involves synthesizing new views of a scene from a limited set of input images. Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have emerged as a powerful approach to address this problem, but they require accurate knowledge of camera \textit{intrinsic} and \textit{extrinsic} parameters. Traditionally, structure-from-motion (SfM) and multi-view stereo (MVS) approaches have been used to extract camera parameters, but these methods can be unreliable and may fail in certain cases. In this paper, we propose a novel technique that leverages unposed images from dynamic datasets, such as the NVIDIA dynamic scenes dataset, to learn camera parameters directly from data. Our approach is highly extensible and can be integrated into existing NeRF architectures with minimal modifications. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method on a variety of static and dynamic scenes and show that it outperforms traditional SfM and MVS approaches. The code for our method is publicly available at \href{https://github.com/redacted/refinerf}{https://github.com/redacted/refinerf}. Our approach offers a promising new direction for improving the accuracy and robustness of NVS using NeRF, and we anticipate that it will be a valuable tool for a wide range of applications in computer vision and graphics.
Revisiting Rotation Averaging: Uncertainties and Robust Losses
In this paper, we revisit the rotation averaging problem applied in global Structure-from-Motion pipelines. We argue that the main problem of current methods is the minimized cost function that is only weakly connected with the input data via the estimated epipolar geometries.We propose to better model the underlying noise distributions by directly propagating the uncertainty from the point correspondences into the rotation averaging. Such uncertainties are obtained for free by considering the Jacobians of two-view refinements. Moreover, we explore integrating a variant of the MAGSAC loss into the rotation averaging problem, instead of using classical robust losses employed in current frameworks. The proposed method leads to results superior to baselines, in terms of accuracy, on large-scale public benchmarks. The code is public. https://github.com/zhangganlin/GlobalSfMpy
Nonlinear Intensity, Scale and Rotation Invariant Matching for Multimodal Images
We present an effective method for the matching of multimodal images. Accurate image matching is the basis of various applications, such as image registration and structure from motion. Conventional matching methods fail when handling noisy multimodal image pairs with severe scale change, rotation, and nonlinear intensity distortion (NID). Toward this need, we introduce an image pyramid strategy to tackle scale change. We put forward an accurate primary orientation estimation approach to reduce the effect of image rotation at any angle. We utilize multi-scale and multi-orientation image filtering results and a feature-to-template matching scheme to ensure effective and accurate matching under large NID. Integrating these improvements significantly increases noise, scale, rotation, and NID invariant capability. Our experimental results confirm the excellent ability to achieve high-quality matches across various multimodal images. The proposed method outperforms the mainstream multimodal image matching methods in qualitative and quantitative evaluations. Our implementation is available at https://github.com/Zhongli-Fan/NISR.
BLiRF: Bandlimited Radiance Fields for Dynamic Scene Modeling
Reasoning the 3D structure of a non-rigid dynamic scene from a single moving camera is an under-constrained problem. Inspired by the remarkable progress of neural radiance fields (NeRFs) in photo-realistic novel view synthesis of static scenes, extensions have been proposed for dynamic settings. These methods heavily rely on neural priors in order to regularize the problem. In this work, we take a step back and reinvestigate how current implementations may entail deleterious effects, including limited expressiveness, entanglement of light and density fields, and sub-optimal motion localization. As a remedy, we advocate for a bridge between classic non-rigid-structure-from-motion (\nrsfm) and NeRF, enabling the well-studied priors of the former to constrain the latter. To this end, we propose a framework that factorizes time and space by formulating a scene as a composition of bandlimited, high-dimensional signals. We demonstrate compelling results across complex dynamic scenes that involve changes in lighting, texture and long-range dynamics.
EC-SfM: Efficient Covisibility-based Structure-from-Motion for Both Sequential and Unordered Images
Structure-from-Motion is a technology used to obtain scene structure through image collection, which is a fundamental problem in computer vision. For unordered Internet images, SfM is very slow due to the lack of prior knowledge about image overlap. For sequential images, knowing the large overlap between adjacent frames, SfM can adopt a variety of acceleration strategies, which are only applicable to sequential data. To further improve the reconstruction efficiency and break the gap of strategies between these two kinds of data, this paper presents an efficient covisibility-based incremental SfM. Different from previous methods, we exploit covisibility and registration dependency to describe the image connection which is suitable to any kind of data. Based on this general image connection, we propose a unified framework to efficiently reconstruct sequential images, unordered images, and the mixture of these two. Experiments on the unordered images and mixed data verify the effectiveness of the proposed method, which is three times faster than the state of the art on feature matching, and an order of magnitude faster on reconstruction without sacrificing the accuracy. The source code is publicly available at https://github.com/openxrlab/xrsfm
Bridge Damage Cause Estimation Using Multiple Images Based on Visual Question Answering
In this paper, a bridge member damage cause estimation framework is proposed by calculating the image position using Structure from Motion (SfM) and acquiring its information via Visual Question Answering (VQA). For this, a VQA model was developed that uses bridge images for dataset creation and outputs the damage or member name and its existence based on the images and questions. In the developed model, the correct answer rate for questions requiring the member's name and the damage's name were 67.4% and 68.9%, respectively. The correct answer rate for questions requiring a yes/no answer was 99.1%. Based on the developed model, a damage cause estimation method was proposed. In the proposed method, the damage causes are narrowed down by inputting new questions to the VQA model, which are determined based on the surrounding images obtained via SfM and the results of the VQA model. Subsequently, the proposed method was then applied to an actual bridge and shown to be capable of determining damage and estimating its cause. The proposed method could be used to prevent damage causes from being overlooked, and practitioners could determine inspection focus areas, which could contribute to the improvement of maintenance techniques. In the future, it is expected to contribute to infrastructure diagnosis automation.
Uncertainty-Driven Dense Two-View Structure from Motion
This work introduces an effective and practical solution to the dense two-view structure from motion (SfM) problem. One vital question addressed is how to mindfully use per-pixel optical flow correspondence between two frames for accurate pose estimation -- as perfect per-pixel correspondence between two images is difficult, if not impossible, to establish. With the carefully estimated camera pose and predicted per-pixel optical flow correspondences, a dense depth of the scene is computed. Later, an iterative refinement procedure is introduced to further improve optical flow matching confidence, camera pose, and depth, exploiting their inherent dependency in rigid SfM. The fundamental idea presented is to benefit from per-pixel uncertainty in the optical flow estimation and provide robustness to the dense SfM system via an online refinement. Concretely, we introduce our uncertainty-driven Dense Two-View SfM pipeline (DTV-SfM), consisting of an uncertainty-aware dense optical flow estimation approach that provides per-pixel correspondence with their confidence score of matching; a weighted dense bundle adjustment formulation that depends on optical flow uncertainty and bidirectional optical flow consistency to refine both pose and depth; a depth estimation network that considers its consistency with the estimated poses and optical flow respecting epipolar constraint. Extensive experiments show that the proposed approach achieves remarkable depth accuracy and state-of-the-art camera pose results superseding SuperPoint and SuperGlue accuracy when tested on benchmark datasets such as DeMoN, YFCC100M, and ScanNet. Code and more materials are available at http://vis.xyz/pub/dtv-sfm.
AdaSfM: From Coarse Global to Fine Incremental Adaptive Structure from Motion
Despite the impressive results achieved by many existing Structure from Motion (SfM) approaches, there is still a need to improve the robustness, accuracy, and efficiency on large-scale scenes with many outlier matches and sparse view graphs. In this paper, we propose AdaSfM: a coarse-to-fine adaptive SfM approach that is scalable to large-scale and challenging datasets. Our approach first does a coarse global SfM which improves the reliability of the view graph by leveraging measurements from low-cost sensors such as Inertial Measurement Units (IMUs) and wheel encoders. Subsequently, the view graph is divided into sub-scenes that are refined in parallel by a fine local incremental SfM regularised by the result from the coarse global SfM to improve the camera registration accuracy and alleviate scene drifts. Finally, our approach uses a threshold-adaptive strategy to align all local reconstructions to the coordinate frame of global SfM. Extensive experiments on large-scale benchmark datasets show that our approach achieves state-of-the-art accuracy and efficiency.
A vision-based autonomous UAV inspection framework for unknown tunnel construction sites with dynamic obstacles
Tunnel construction using the drill-and-blast method requires the 3D measurement of the excavation front to evaluate underbreak locations. Considering the inspection and measurement task's safety, cost, and efficiency, deploying lightweight autonomous robots, such as unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV), becomes more necessary and popular. Most of the previous works use a prior map for inspection viewpoint determination and do not consider dynamic obstacles. To maximally increase the level of autonomy, this paper proposes a vision-based UAV inspection framework for dynamic tunnel environments without using a prior map. Our approach utilizes a hierarchical planning scheme, decomposing the inspection problem into different levels. The high-level decision maker first determines the task for the robot and generates the target point. Then, the mid-level path planner finds the waypoint path and optimizes the collision-free static trajectory. Finally, the static trajectory will be fed into the low-level local planner to avoid dynamic obstacles and navigate to the target point. Besides, our framework contains a novel dynamic map module that can simultaneously track dynamic obstacles and represent static obstacles based on an RGB-D camera. After inspection, the Structure-from-Motion (SfM) pipeline is applied to generate the 3D shape of the target. To our best knowledge, this is the first time autonomous inspection has been realized in unknown and dynamic tunnel environments. Our flight experiments in a real tunnel prove that our method can autonomously inspect the tunnel excavation front surface.
Robust Dynamic Radiance Fields
Dynamic radiance field reconstruction methods aim to model the time-varying structure and appearance of a dynamic scene. Existing methods, however, assume that accurate camera poses can be reliably estimated by Structure from Motion (SfM) algorithms. These methods, thus, are unreliable as SfM algorithms often fail or produce erroneous poses on challenging videos with highly dynamic objects, poorly textured surfaces, and rotating camera motion. We address this robustness issue by jointly estimating the static and dynamic radiance fields along with the camera parameters (poses and focal length). We demonstrate the robustness of our approach via extensive quantitative and qualitative experiments. Our results show favorable performance over the state-of-the-art dynamic view synthesis methods.
Polarimetric Multi-View Inverse Rendering
A polarization camera has great potential for 3D reconstruction since the angle of polarization (AoP) and the degree of polarization (DoP) of reflected light are related to an object's surface normal. In this paper, we propose a novel 3D reconstruction method called Polarimetric Multi-View Inverse Rendering (Polarimetric MVIR) that effectively exploits geometric, photometric, and polarimetric cues extracted from input multi-view color-polarization images. We first estimate camera poses and an initial 3D model by geometric reconstruction with a standard structure-from-motion and multi-view stereo pipeline. We then refine the initial model by optimizing photometric rendering errors and polarimetric errors using multi-view RGB, AoP, and DoP images, where we propose a novel polarimetric cost function that enables an effective constraint on the estimated surface normal of each vertex, while considering four possible ambiguous azimuth angles revealed from the AoP measurement. The weight for the polarimetric cost is effectively determined based on the DoP measurement, which is regarded as the reliability of polarimetric information. Experimental results using both synthetic and real data demonstrate that our Polarimetric MVIR can reconstruct a detailed 3D shape without assuming a specific surface material and lighting condition.
Accidental Turntables: Learning 3D Pose by Watching Objects Turn
We propose a technique for learning single-view 3D object pose estimation models by utilizing a new source of data -- in-the-wild videos where objects turn. Such videos are prevalent in practice (e.g., cars in roundabouts, airplanes near runways) and easy to collect. We show that classical structure-from-motion algorithms, coupled with the recent advances in instance detection and feature matching, provides surprisingly accurate relative 3D pose estimation on such videos. We propose a multi-stage training scheme that first learns a canonical pose across a collection of videos and then supervises a model for single-view pose estimation. The proposed technique achieves competitive performance with respect to existing state-of-the-art on standard benchmarks for 3D pose estimation, without requiring any pose labels during training. We also contribute an Accidental Turntables Dataset, containing a challenging set of 41,212 images of cars in cluttered backgrounds, motion blur and illumination changes that serves as a benchmark for 3D pose estimation.
3D Object Aided Self-Supervised Monocular Depth Estimation
Monocular depth estimation has been actively studied in fields such as robot vision, autonomous driving, and 3D scene understanding. Given a sequence of color images, unsupervised learning methods based on the framework of Structure-From-Motion (SfM) simultaneously predict depth and camera relative pose. However, dynamically moving objects in the scene violate the static world assumption, resulting in inaccurate depths of dynamic objects. In this work, we propose a new method to address such dynamic object movements through monocular 3D object detection. Specifically, we first detect 3D objects in the images and build the per-pixel correspondence of the dynamic pixels with the detected object pose while leaving the static pixels corresponding to the rigid background to be modeled with camera motion. In this way, the depth of every pixel can be learned via a meaningful geometry model. Besides, objects are detected as cuboids with absolute scale, which is used to eliminate the scale ambiguity problem inherent in monocular vision. Experiments on the KITTI depth dataset show that our method achieves State-of-The-Art performance for depth estimation. Furthermore, joint training of depth, camera motion and object pose also improves monocular 3D object detection performance. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that allows a monocular 3D object detection network to be fine-tuned in a self-supervised manner.
High-Res Facial Appearance Capture from Polarized Smartphone Images
We propose a novel method for high-quality facial texture reconstruction from RGB images using a novel capturing routine based on a single smartphone which we equip with an inexpensive polarization foil. Specifically, we turn the flashlight into a polarized light source and add a polarization filter on top of the camera. Leveraging this setup, we capture the face of a subject with cross-polarized and parallel-polarized light. For each subject, we record two short sequences in a dark environment under flash illumination with different light polarization using the modified smartphone. Based on these observations, we reconstruct an explicit surface mesh of the face using structure from motion. We then exploit the camera and light co-location within a differentiable renderer to optimize the facial textures using an analysis-by-synthesis approach. Our method optimizes for high-resolution normal textures, diffuse albedo, and specular albedo using a coarse-to-fine optimization scheme. We show that the optimized textures can be used in a standard rendering pipeline to synthesize high-quality photo-realistic 3D digital humans in novel environments.
FeatureBooster: Boosting Feature Descriptors with a Lightweight Neural Network
We introduce a lightweight network to improve descriptors of keypoints within the same image. The network takes the original descriptors and the geometric properties of keypoints as the input, and uses an MLP-based self-boosting stage and a Transformer-based cross-boosting stage to enhance the descriptors. The boosted descriptors can be either real-valued or binary ones. We use the proposed network to boost both hand-crafted (ORB, SIFT) and the state-of-the-art learning-based descriptors (SuperPoint, ALIKE) and evaluate them on image matching, visual localization, and structure-from-motion tasks. The results show that our method significantly improves the performance of each task, particularly in challenging cases such as large illumination changes or repetitive patterns. Our method requires only 3.2ms on desktop GPU and 27ms on embedded GPU to process 2000 features, which is fast enough to be applied to a practical system. The code and trained weights are publicly available at github.com/SJTU-ViSYS/FeatureBooster.
SfM-TTR: Using Structure from Motion for Test-Time Refinement of Single-View Depth Networks
Estimating a dense depth map from a single view is geometrically ill-posed, and state-of-the-art methods rely on learning depth's relation with visual appearance using deep neural networks. On the other hand, Structure from Motion (SfM) leverages multi-view constraints to produce very accurate but sparse maps, as matching across images is typically limited by locally discriminative texture. In this work, we combine the strengths of both approaches by proposing a novel test-time refinement (TTR) method, denoted as SfM-TTR, that boosts the performance of single-view depth networks at test time using SfM multi-view cues. Specifically, and differently from the state of the art, we use sparse SfM point clouds as test-time self-supervisory signal, fine-tuning the network encoder to learn a better representation of the test scene. Our results show how the addition of SfM-TTR to several state-of-the-art self-supervised and supervised networks improves significantly their performance, outperforming previous TTR baselines mainly based on photometric multi-view consistency. The code is available at https://github.com/serizba/SfM-TTR.
Level-S$^2$fM: Structure from Motion on Neural Level Set of Implicit Surfaces
This paper presents a neural incremental Structure-from-Motion (SfM) approach, Level-S$^2$fM, which estimates the camera poses and scene geometry from a set of uncalibrated images by learning coordinate MLPs for the implicit surfaces and the radiance fields from the established keypoint correspondences. Our novel formulation poses some new challenges due to inevitable two-view and few-view configurations in the incremental SfM pipeline, which complicates the optimization of coordinate MLPs for volumetric neural rendering with unknown camera poses. Nevertheless, we demonstrate that the strong inductive basis conveying in the 2D correspondences is promising to tackle those challenges by exploiting the relationship between the ray sampling schemes. Based on this, we revisit the pipeline of incremental SfM and renew the key components, including two-view geometry initialization, the camera poses registration, the 3D points triangulation, and Bundle Adjustment, with a fresh perspective based on neural implicit surfaces. By unifying the scene geometry in small MLP networks through coordinate MLPs, our Level-S$^2$fM treats the zero-level set of the implicit surface as an informative top-down regularization to manage the reconstructed 3D points, reject the outliers in correspondences via querying SDF, and refine the estimated geometries by NBA (Neural BA). Not only does our Level-S$^2$fM lead to promising results on camera pose estimation and scene geometry reconstruction, but it also shows a promising way for neural implicit rendering without knowing camera extrinsic beforehand.
Towards Live 3D Reconstruction from Wearable Video: An Evaluation of V-SLAM, NeRF, and Videogrammetry Techniques
Mixed reality (MR) is a key technology which promises to change the future of warfare. An MR hybrid of physical outdoor environments and virtual military training will enable engagements with long distance enemies, both real and simulated. To enable this technology, a large-scale 3D model of a physical environment must be maintained based on live sensor observations. 3D reconstruction algorithms should utilize the low cost and pervasiveness of video camera sensors, from both overhead and soldier-level perspectives. Mapping speed and 3D quality can be balanced to enable live MR training in dynamic environments. Given these requirements, we survey several 3D reconstruction algorithms for large-scale mapping for military applications given only live video. We measure 3D reconstruction performance from common structure from motion, visual-SLAM, and photogrammetry techniques. This includes the open source algorithms COLMAP, ORB-SLAM3, and NeRF using Instant-NGP. We utilize the autonomous driving academic benchmark KITTI, which includes both dashboard camera video and lidar produced 3D ground truth. With the KITTI data, our primary contribution is a quantitative evaluation of 3D reconstruction computational speed when considering live video.
Controllable GAN Synthesis Using Non-Rigid Structure-from-Motion
In this paper, we present an approach for combining non-rigid structure-from-motion (NRSfM) with deep generative models,and propose an efficient framework for discovering trajectories in the latent space of 2D GANs corresponding to changes in 3D geometry. Our approach uses recent advances in NRSfM and enables editing of the camera and non-rigid shape information associated with the latent codes without needing to retrain the generator. This formulation provides an implicit dense 3D reconstruction as it enables the image synthesis of novel shapes from arbitrary view angles and non-rigid structure. The method is built upon a sparse backbone, where a neural regressor is first trained to regress parameters describing the cameras and sparse non-rigid structure directly from the latent codes. The latent trajectories associated with changes in the camera and structure parameters are then identified by estimating the local inverse of the regressor in the neighborhood of a given latent code. The experiments show that our approach provides a versatile, systematic way to model, analyze, and edit the geometry and non-rigid structures of faces.
Quantifying and analyzing rock trait distributions of rocky fault scarps using deep learning approach
We apply a deep learning model to segment and identify rock characteristics based on a Structure-from-Motion orthomap and digital elevation model of a rocky fault scarp in the Volcanic Tablelands, eastern California. By post-processing the deep learning results, we build a semantic rock map and analyze rock trait distributions. The resulting semantic map contains nearly 230,000 rocks with effective diameters ranging from 2 cm to 250 cm. Rock trait distributions provide a new perspective on rocky fault scarp development and extend past research on scarp geometry including slope, height, and length. Heatmaps indicate rock size spatial distributions on the fault scarp and surrounding topographic flats. Median grain size changes perpendicular to the fault scarp trace with the largest rocks exposed on and downslope from the scarp footwall. Correlation analyses of the segmented fault scarp illustrate the relationship between rock trait statistics and fault scarp geomorphology. Local fault scarp height correlates with median grain size (R2 of 0.6), the mean grain size of the largest rocks (R2 of 0.76), and the ratio of the number of small to large rocks (R2 of 0.40). The positive correlation (R2 of 0.81) between local fault scarp height and standard deviation of grain size suggests that rocks on a higher fault scarp are less well sorted. The correlation analysis between fault scarp height and rock orientation statistics supports a particle transportation model in which locally higher fault scarps have relatively more rocks with long axes parallel to fault scarp trace because rocks have a larger distance to roll and orient the long axes. Our work demonstrates a data-driven approach to geomorphology based on rock trait distributions, promising a greater understanding of fault scarp formation, as well as many other applications for which granulometry is an indicator of process.
DeepMLE: A Robust Deep Maximum Likelihood Estimator for Two-view Structure from Motion
Two-view structure from motion (SfM) is the cornerstone of 3D reconstruction and visual SLAM (vSLAM). Many existing end-to-end learning-based methods usually formulate it as a brute regression problem. However, the inadequate utilization of traditional geometry model makes the model not robust in unseen environments. To improve the generalization capability and robustness of end-to-end two-view SfM network, we formulate the two-view SfM problem as a maximum likelihood estimation (MLE) and solve it with the proposed framework, denoted as DeepMLE. First, we propose to take the deep multi-scale correlation maps to depict the visual similarities of 2D image matches decided by ego-motion. In addition, in order to increase the robustness of our framework, we formulate the likelihood function of the correlations of 2D image matches as a Gaussian and Uniform mixture distribution which takes the uncertainty caused by illumination changes, image noise and moving objects into account. Meanwhile, an uncertainty prediction module is presented to predict the pixel-wise distribution parameters. Finally, we iteratively refine the depth and relative camera pose using the gradient-like information to maximize the likelihood function of the correlations. Extensive experimental results on several datasets prove that our method significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art end-to-end two-view SfM approaches in accuracy and generalization capability.
Spectral Sparsification for Communication-Efficient Collaborative Rotation and Translation Estimation
We propose fast and communication-efficient optimization algorithms for multi-robot rotation averaging and translation estimation problems that arise from collaborative simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM), structure-from-motion (SfM), and camera network localization applications. Our methods are based on theoretical relations between the Hessians of the underlying Riemannian optimization problems and the Laplacians of suitably weighted graphs. We leverage these results to design a collaborative solver in which robots coordinate with a central server to perform approximate second-order optimization, by solving a Laplacian system at each iteration. Crucially, our algorithms permit robots to employ spectral sparsification to sparsify intermediate dense matrices before communication, and hence provide a mechanism to trade off accuracy with communication efficiency with provable guarantees. We perform rigorous theoretical analysis of our methods and prove that they enjoy (local) linear rate of convergence. Furthermore, we show that our methods can be combined with graduated non-convexity to achieve outlier-robust estimation. Extensive experiments on real-world SLAM and SfM scenarios demonstrate the superior convergence rate and communication efficiency of our methods.
Leveraging Structure from Motion to Localize Inaccessible Bus Stops
The detection of hazardous conditions near public transit stations is necessary for ensuring the safety and accessibility of public transit. Smart city infrastructures aim to facilitate this task among many others through the use of computer vision. However, most state-of-the-art computer vision models require thousands of images in order to perform accurate detection, and there exist few images of hazardous conditions as they are generally rare. In this paper, we examine the detection of snow-covered sidewalks along bus routes. Previous work has focused on detecting other vehicles in heavy snowfall or simply detecting the presence of snow. However, our application has an added complication of determining if the snow covers areas of importance and can cause falls or other accidents (e.g. snow covering a sidewalk) or simply covers some background area (e.g. snow on a neighboring field). This problem involves localizing the positions of the areas of importance when they are not necessarily visible.   We introduce a method that utilizes Structure from Motion (SfM) rather than additional annotated data to address this issue. Specifically, our method learns the locations of sidewalks in a given scene by applying a segmentation model and SfM to images from bus cameras during clear weather. Then, we use the learned locations to detect if and where the sidewalks become obscured with snow. After evaluating across various threshold parameters, we identify an optimal range at which our method consistently classifies different categories of sidewalk images correctly. Although we demonstrate an application for snow coverage along bus routes, this method can extend to other hazardous conditions as well. Code for this project is available at https://github.com/ind1010/SfM_for_BusEdge.
Structure-Aware NeRF without Posed Camera via Epipolar Constraint
The neural radiance field (NeRF) for realistic novel view synthesis requires camera poses to be pre-acquired by a structure-from-motion (SfM) approach. This two-stage strategy is not convenient to use and degrades the performance because the error in the pose extraction can propagate to the view synthesis. We integrate the pose extraction and view synthesis into a single end-to-end procedure so they can benefit from each other. For training NeRF models, only RGB images are given, without pre-known camera poses. The camera poses are obtained by the epipolar constraint in which the identical feature in different views has the same world coordinates transformed from the local camera coordinates according to the extracted poses. The epipolar constraint is jointly optimized with pixel color constraint. The poses are represented by a CNN-based deep network, whose input is the related frames. This joint optimization enables NeRF to be aware of the scene's structure that has an improved generalization performance. Extensive experiments on a variety of scenes demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach. Code is available at https://github.com/XTU-PR-LAB/SaNerf.
FAST-LIO, Then Bayesian ICP, Then GTSFM
For the Hilti Challenge 2022, we created two systems, one building upon the other. The first system is FL2BIPS which utilizes the iEKF algorithm FAST-LIO2 and Bayesian ICP PoseSLAM, whereas the second system is GTSFM, a structure from motion pipeline with factor graph backend optimization powered by GTSAM
BuFF: Burst Feature Finder for Light-Constrained 3D Reconstruction
Robots operating at night using conventional vision cameras face significant challenges in reconstruction due to noise-limited images. Previous work has demonstrated that burst-imaging techniques can be used to partially overcome this issue. In this paper, we develop a novel feature detector that operates directly on image bursts that enhances vision-based reconstruction under extremely low-light conditions. Our approach finds keypoints with well-defined scale and apparent motion within each burst by jointly searching in a multi-scale and multi-motion space. Because we describe these features at a stage where the images have higher signal-to-noise ratio, the detected features are more accurate than the state-of-the-art on conventional noisy images and burst-merged images and exhibit high precision, recall, and matching performance. We show improved feature performance and camera pose estimates and demonstrate improved structure-from-motion performance using our feature detector in challenging light-constrained scenes. Our feature finder provides a significant step towards robots operating in low-light scenarios and applications including night-time operations.
A Hybrid Cable-Driven Robot for Non-Destructive Leafy Plant Monitoring and Mass Estimation using Structure from Motion
We propose a novel hybrid cable-based robot with manipulator and camera for high-accuracy, medium-throughput plant monitoring in a vertical hydroponic farm and, as an example application, demonstrate non-destructive plant mass estimation. Plant monitoring with high temporal and spatial resolution is important to both farmers and researchers to detect anomalies and develop predictive models for plant growth. The availability of high-quality, off-the-shelf structure-from-motion (SfM) and photogrammetry packages has enabled a vibrant community of roboticists to apply computer vision for non-destructive plant monitoring. While existing approaches tend to focus on either high-throughput (e.g. satellite, unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), vehicle-mounted, conveyor-belt imagery) or high-accuracy/robustness to occlusions (e.g. turn-table scanner or robot arm), we propose a middle-ground that achieves high accuracy with a medium-throughput, highly automated robot. Our design pairs the workspace scalability of a cable-driven parallel robot (CDPR) with the dexterity of a 4 degree-of-freedom (DoF) robot arm to autonomously image many plants from a variety of viewpoints. We describe our robot design and demonstrate it experimentally by collecting daily photographs of 54 plants from 64 viewpoints each. We show that our approach can produce scientifically useful measurements, operate fully autonomously after initial calibration, and produce better reconstructions and plant property estimates than those of over-canopy methods (e.g. UAV). As example applications, we show that our system can successfully estimate plant mass with a Mean Absolute Error (MAE) of 0.586g and, when used to perform hypothesis testing on the relationship between mass and age, produces p-values comparable to ground-truth data (p=0.0020 and p=0.0016, respectively).
End-to-End Multi-View Structure-from-Motion with Hypercorrelation Volumes
Image-based 3D reconstruction is one of the most important tasks in Computer Vision with many solutions proposed over the last few decades. The objective is to extract metric information i.e. the geometry of scene objects directly from images. These can then be used in a wide range of applications such as film, games, virtual reality, etc. Recently, deep learning techniques have been proposed to tackle this problem. They rely on training on vast amounts of data to learn to associate features between images through deep convolutional neural networks and have been shown to outperform traditional procedural techniques. In this paper, we improve on the state-of-the-art two-view structure-from-motion(SfM) approach of [11] by incorporating 4D correlation volume for more accurate feature matching and reconstruction. Furthermore, we extend it to the general multi-view case and evaluate it on the complex benchmark dataset DTU [4]. Quantitative evaluations and comparisons with state-of-the-art multi-view 3D reconstruction methods demonstrate its superiority in terms of the accuracy of reconstructions.
Deployment of Aerial Robots during the Flood Disaster in Erftstadt / Blessem in July 2021
Climate change is leading to more and more extreme weather events such as heavy rainfall and flooding. This technical report deals with the question of how rescue commanders can be better and faster provided with current information during flood disasters using Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), i.e. during the flood in July 2021 in Central Europe, more specifically in Erftstadt / Blessem. The UAVs were used for live observation and regular inspections of the flood edge on the one hand, and on the other hand for the systematic data acquisition in order to calculate 3D models using Structure from Motion and MultiView Stereo. The 3D models embedded in a GIS application serve as a planning basis for the systematic exploration and decision support for the deployment of additional smaller UAVs but also rescue forces. The systematic data acquisition of the UAVs by means of autonomous meander flights provides high-resolution images which are computed to a georeferenced 3D model of the surrounding area within 15 minutes in a specially equipped robotic command vehicle (RobLW). From the comparison of high-resolution elevation profiles extracted from the 3D model on successive days, changes in the water level become visible. This information enables the emergency management to plan further inspections of the buildings and to search for missing persons on site.
Weakly and Semi-Supervised Detection, Segmentation and Tracking of Table Grapes with Limited and Noisy Data
Detection, segmentation and tracking of fruits and vegetables are three fundamental tasks for precision agriculture, enabling robotic harvesting and yield estimation applications. However, modern algorithms are data hungry and it is not always possible to gather enough data to apply the best performing supervised approaches. Since data collection is an expensive and cumbersome task, the enabling technologies for using computer vision in agriculture are often out of reach for small businesses. Following previous work in this context, where we proposed an initial weakly supervised solution to reduce the data needed to get state-of-the-art detection and segmentation in precision agriculture applications, here we improve that system and explore the problem of tracking fruits in orchards. We present the case of vineyards of table grapes in southern Lazio (Italy) since grapes are a difficult fruit to segment due to occlusion, color and general illumination conditions. We consider the case in which there is some initial labelled data that could work as source data (\eg wine grape data), but it is considerably different from the target data (e.g. table grape data). To improve detection and segmentation on the target data, we propose to train the segmentation algorithm with a weak bounding box label, while for tracking we leverage 3D Structure from Motion algorithms to generate new labels from already labelled samples. Finally, the two systems are combined in a full semi-supervised approach. Comparisons with state-of-the-art supervised solutions show how our methods are able to train new models that achieve high performances with few labelled images and with very simple labelling.
Handling Constrained Optimization in Factor Graphs for Autonomous Navigation
Factor graphs are graphical models used to represent a wide variety of problems across robotics, such as Structure from Motion (SfM), Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) and calibration. Typically, at their core, they have an optimization problem whose terms only depend on a small subset of variables. Factor graph solvers exploit the locality of problems to drastically reduce the computational time of the Iterative Least-Squares (ILS) methodology. Although extremely powerful, their application is usually limited to unconstrained problems. In this paper, we model constraints over variables within factor graphs by introducing a factor graph version of the method of Lagrange Multipliers. We show the potential of our method by presenting a full navigation stack based on factor graphs. Differently from standard navigation stacks, we can model both optimal control for local planning and localization with factor graphs, and solve the two problems using the standard ILS methodology. We validate our approach in real-world autonomous navigation scenarios, comparing it with the de facto standard navigation stack implemented in ROS. Comparative experiments show that for the application at hand our system outperforms the standard nonlinear programming solver Interior-Point Optimizer (IPOPT) in runtime, while achieving similar solutions.
Globally Consistent Video Depth and Pose Estimation with Efficient Test-Time Training
Dense depth and pose estimation is a vital prerequisite for various video applications. Traditional solutions suffer from the robustness of sparse feature tracking and insufficient camera baselines in videos. Therefore, recent methods utilize learning-based optical flow and depth prior to estimate dense depth. However, previous works require heavy computation time or yield sub-optimal depth results. We present GCVD, a globally consistent method for learning-based video structure from motion (SfM) in this paper. GCVD integrates a compact pose graph into the CNN-based optimization to achieve globally consistent estimation from an effective keyframe selection mechanism. It can improve the robustness of learning-based methods with flow-guided keyframes and well-established depth prior. Experimental results show that GCVD outperforms the state-of-the-art methods on both depth and pose estimation. Besides, the runtime experiments reveal that it provides strong efficiency in both short- and long-term videos with global consistency provided.
One Object at a Time: Accurate and Robust Structure From Motion for Robots
A gaze-fixating robot perceives distance to the fixated object and relative positions of surrounding objects immediately, accurately, and robustly. We show how fixation, which is the act of looking at one object while moving, exploits regularities in the geometry of 3D space to obtain this information. These regularities introduce rotation-translation couplings that are not commonly used in structure from motion. To validate, we use a Franka Emika Robot with an RGB camera. We a) find that error in distance estimate is less than 5 mm at a distance of 15 cm, and b) show how relative position can be used to find obstacles under challenging scenarios. We combine accurate distance estimates and obstacle information into a reactive robot behavior that is able to pick up objects of unknown size, while impeded by unforeseen obstacles.
Detection and Initial Assessment of Lunar Landing Sites Using Neural Networks
Robotic and human lunar landings are a focus of future NASA missions. Precision landing capabilities are vital to guarantee the success of the mission, and the safety of the lander and crew. During the approach to the surface there are multiple challenges associated with Hazard Relative Navigation to ensure safe landings. This paper will focus on a passive autonomous hazard detection and avoidance sub-system to generate an initial assessment of possible landing regions for the guidance system. The system uses a single camera and the MobileNetV2 neural network architecture to detect and discern between safe landing sites and hazards such as rocks, shadows, and craters. Then a monocular structure from motion will recreate the surface to provide slope and roughness analysis.
MeshLoc: Mesh-Based Visual Localization
Visual localization, i.e., the problem of camera pose estimation, is a central component of applications such as autonomous robots and augmented reality systems. A dominant approach in the literature, shown to scale to large scenes and to handle complex illumination and seasonal changes, is based on local features extracted from images. The scene representation is a sparse Structure-from-Motion point cloud that is tied to a specific local feature. Switching to another feature type requires an expensive feature matching step between the database images used to construct the point cloud. In this work, we thus explore a more flexible alternative based on dense 3D meshes that does not require features matching between database images to build the scene representation. We show that this approach can achieve state-of-the-art results. We further show that surprisingly competitive results can be obtained when extracting features on renderings of these meshes, without any neural rendering stage, and even when rendering raw scene geometry without color or texture. Our results show that dense 3D model-based representations are a promising alternative to existing representations and point to interesting and challenging directions for future research.
ParticleSfM: Exploiting Dense Point Trajectories for Localizing Moving Cameras in the Wild
Estimating the pose of a moving camera from monocular video is a challenging problem, especially due to the presence of moving objects in dynamic environments, where the performance of existing camera pose estimation methods are susceptible to pixels that are not geometrically consistent. To tackle this challenge, we present a robust dense indirect structure-from-motion method for videos that is based on dense correspondence initialized from pairwise optical flow. Our key idea is to optimize long-range video correspondence as dense point trajectories and use it to learn robust estimation of motion segmentation. A novel neural network architecture is proposed for processing irregular point trajectory data. Camera poses are then estimated and optimized with global bundle adjustment over the portion of long-range point trajectories that are classified as static. Experiments on MPI Sintel dataset show that our system produces significantly more accurate camera trajectories compared to existing state-of-the-art methods. In addition, our method is able to retain reasonable accuracy of camera poses on fully static scenes, which consistently outperforms strong state-of-the-art dense correspondence based methods with end-to-end deep learning, demonstrating the potential of dense indirect methods based on optical flow and point trajectories. As the point trajectory representation is general, we further present results and comparisons on in-the-wild monocular videos with complex motion of dynamic objects. Code is available at https://github.com/bytedance/particle-sfm.
Organic Priors in Non-Rigid Structure from Motion
This paper advocates the use of organic priors in classical non-rigid structure from motion (NRSfM). By organic priors, we mean invaluable intermediate prior information intrinsic to the NRSfM matrix factorization theory. It is shown that such priors reside in the factorized matrices, and quite surprisingly, existing methods generally disregard them. The paper's main contribution is to put forward a simple, methodical, and practical method that can effectively exploit such organic priors to solve NRSfM. The proposed method does not make assumptions other than the popular one on the low-rank shape and offers a reliable solution to NRSfM under orthographic projection. Our work reveals that the accessibility of organic priors is independent of the camera motion and shape deformation type. Besides that, the paper provides insights into the NRSfM factorization -- both in terms of shape and motion -- and is the first approach to show the benefit of single rotation averaging for NRSfM. Furthermore, we outline how to effectively recover motion and non-rigid 3D shape using the proposed organic prior based approach and demonstrate results that outperform prior-free NRSfM performance by a significant margin. Finally, we present the benefits of our method via extensive experiments and evaluations on several benchmark datasets.
A Novel Hybrid Endoscopic Dataset for Evaluating Machine Learning-based Photometric Image Enhancement Models
Endoscopy is the most widely used medical technique for cancer and polyp detection inside hollow organs. However, images acquired by an endoscope are frequently affected by illumination artefacts due to the enlightenment source orientation. There exist two major issues when the endoscope's light source pose suddenly changes: overexposed and underexposed tissue areas are produced. These two scenarios can result in misdiagnosis due to the lack of information in the affected zones or hamper the performance of various computer vision methods (e.g., SLAM, structure from motion, optical flow) used during the non invasive examination. The aim of this work is two-fold: i) to introduce a new synthetically generated data-set generated by a generative adversarial techniques and ii) and to explore both shallow based and deep learning-based image-enhancement methods in overexposed and underexposed lighting conditions. Best quantitative results (i.e., metric based results), were obtained by the deep-learnnig-based LMSPEC method,besides a running time around 7.6 fps)
Parallel Structure from Motion for UAV Images via Weighted Connected Dominating Set
Incremental Structure from Motion (ISfM) has been widely used for UAV image orientation. Its efficiency, however, decreases dramatically due to the sequential constraint. Although the divide-and-conquer strategy has been utilized for efficiency improvement, cluster merging becomes difficult or depends on seriously designed overlap structures. This paper proposes an algorithm to extract the global model for cluster merging and designs a parallel SfM solution to achieve efficient and accurate UAV image orientation. First, based on vocabulary tree retrieval, match pairs are selected to construct an undirected weighted match graph, whose edge weights are calculated by considering both the number and distribution of feature matches. Second, an algorithm, termed weighted connected dominating set (WCDS), is designed to achieve the simplification of the match graph and build the global model, which incorporates the edge weight in the graph node selection and enables the successful reconstruction of the global model. Third, the match graph is simultaneously divided into compact and non-overlapped clusters. After the parallel reconstruction, cluster merging is conducted with the aid of common 3D points between the global and cluster models. Finally, by using three UAV datasets that are captured by classical oblique and recent optimized views photogrammetry, the validation of the proposed solution is verified through comprehensive analysis and comparison. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed parallel SfM can achieve 17.4 times efficiency improvement and comparative orientation accuracy. In absolute BA, the geo-referencing accuracy is approximately 2.0 and 3.0 times the GSD (Ground Sampling Distance) value in the horizontal and vertical directions, respectively. For parallel SfM, the proposed solution is a more reliable alternative.
TC-SfM: Robust Track-Community-Based Structure-from-Motion
Structure-from-Motion (SfM) aims to recover 3D scene structures and camera poses based on the correspondences between input images, and thus the ambiguity caused by duplicate structures (i.e., different structures with strong visual resemblance) always results in incorrect camera poses and 3D structures. To deal with the ambiguity, most existing studies resort to additional constraint information or implicit inference by analyzing two-view geometries or feature points. In this paper, we propose to exploit high-level information in the scene, i.e., the spatial contextual information of local regions, to guide the reconstruction. Specifically, a novel structure is proposed, namely, {\textit{track-community}}, in which each community consists of a group of tracks and represents a local segment in the scene. A community detection algorithm is used to partition the scene into several segments. Then, the potential ambiguous segments are detected by analyzing the neighborhood of tracks and corrected by checking the pose consistency. Finally, we perform partial reconstruction on each segment and align them with a novel bidirectional consistency cost function which considers both 3D-3D correspondences and pairwise relative camera poses. Experimental results demonstrate that our approach can robustly alleviate reconstruction failure resulting from visually indistinguishable structures and accurately merge the partial reconstructions.
EigenFairing: 3D Model Fairing using Image Coherence
A surface is often modeled as a triangulated mesh of 3D points and textures associated with faces of the mesh. The 3D points could be either sampled from range data or derived from a set of images using a stereo or Structure-from-Motion algorithm. When the points do not lie at critical points of maximum curvature or discontinuities of the real surface, faces of the mesh do not lie close to the modeled surface. This results in textural artifacts, and the model is not perfectly coherent with a set of actual images -- the ones that are used to texture-map its mesh. This paper presents a technique for perfecting the 3D surface model by repositioning its vertices so that it is coherent with a set of observed images of the object. The textural artifacts and incoherence with images are due to the non-planarity of a surface patch being approximated by a planar face, as observed from multiple viewpoints. Image areas from the viewpoints are used to represent texture for the patch in Eigenspace. The Eigenspace representation captures variations of texture, which we seek to minimize. A coherence measure based on the difference between the face textures reconstructed from Eigenspace and the actual images is used to reposition the vertices so that the model is improved or faired. We refer to this technique of model refinement as EigenFairing, by which the model is faired, both geometrically and texturally, to better approximate the real surface.
Semantic Room Wireframe Detection from a Single View
Reconstruction of indoor surfaces with limited texture information or with repeated textures, a situation common in walls and ceilings, may be difficult with a monocular Structure from Motion system. We propose a Semantic Room Wireframe Detection task to predict a Semantic Wireframe from a single perspective image. Such predictions may be used with shape priors to estimate the Room Layout and aid reconstruction. To train and test the proposed algorithm we create a new set of annotations from the simulated Structured3D dataset. We show qualitatively that the SRW-Net handles complex room geometries better than previous Room Layout Estimation algorithms while quantitatively out-performing the baseline in non-semantic Wireframe Detection.
Geo-Neus: Geometry-Consistent Neural Implicit Surfaces Learning for Multi-view Reconstruction
Recently, neural implicit surfaces learning by volume rendering has become popular for multi-view reconstruction. However, one key challenge remains: existing approaches lack explicit multi-view geometry constraints, hence usually fail to generate geometry consistent surface reconstruction. To address this challenge, we propose geometry-consistent neural implicit surfaces learning for multi-view reconstruction. We theoretically analyze that there exists a gap between the volume rendering integral and point-based signed distance function (SDF) modeling. To bridge this gap, we directly locate the zero-level set of SDF networks and explicitly perform multi-view geometry optimization by leveraging the sparse geometry from structure from motion (SFM) and photometric consistency in multi-view stereo. This makes our SDF optimization unbiased and allows the multi-view geometry constraints to focus on the true surface optimization. Extensive experiments show that our proposed method achieves high-quality surface reconstruction in both complex thin structures and large smooth regions, thus outperforming the state-of-the-arts by a large margin.
Is my Depth Ground-Truth Good Enough? HAMMER -- Highly Accurate Multi-Modal Dataset for DEnse 3D Scene Regression
Depth estimation is a core task in 3D computer vision. Recent methods investigate the task of monocular depth trained with various depth sensor modalities. Every sensor has its advantages and drawbacks caused by the nature of estimates. In the literature, mostly mean average error of the depth is investigated and sensor capabilities are typically not discussed. Especially indoor environments, however, pose challenges for some devices. Textureless regions pose challenges for structure from motion, reflective materials are problematic for active sensing, and distances for translucent material are intricate to measure with existing sensors. This paper proposes HAMMER, a dataset comprising depth estimates from multiple commonly used sensors for indoor depth estimation, namely ToF, stereo, structured light together with monocular RGB+P data. We construct highly reliable ground truth depth maps with the help of 3D scanners and aligned renderings. A popular depth estimators is trained on this data and typical depth senosors. The estimates are extensively analyze on different scene structures. We notice generalization issues arising from various sensor technologies in household environments with challenging but everyday scene content. HAMMER, which we make publicly available, provides a reliable base to pave the way to targeted depth improvements and sensor fusion approaches.
Optimizing Terrain Mapping and Landing Site Detection for Autonomous UAVs
The next generation of Mars rotorcrafts requires on-board autonomous hazard avoidance landing. To this end, this work proposes a system that performs continuous multi-resolution height map reconstruction and safe landing spot detection. Structure-from-Motion measurements are aggregated in a pyramid structure using a novel Optimal Mixture of Gaussians formulation that provides a comprehensive uncertainty model. Our multiresolution pyramid is built more efficiently and accurately than past work by decoupling pyramid filling from the measurement updates of different resolutions. To detect the safest landing location, after an optimized hazard segmentation, we use a mean shift algorithm on multiple distance transform peaks to account for terrain roughness and uncertainty. The benefits of our contributions are evaluated on real and synthetic flight data.
EVIMO2: An Event Camera Dataset for Motion Segmentation, Optical Flow, Structure from Motion, and Visual Inertial Odometry in Indoor Scenes with Monocular or Stereo Algorithms
A new event camera dataset, EVIMO2, is introduced that improves on the popular EVIMO dataset by providing more data, from better cameras, in more complex scenarios. As with its predecessor, EVIMO2 provides labels in the form of per-pixel ground truth depth and segmentation as well as camera and object poses. All sequences use data from physical cameras and many sequences feature multiple independently moving objects. Typically, such labeled data is unavailable in physical event camera datasets. Thus, EVIMO2 will serve as a challenging benchmark for existing algorithms and rich training set for the development of new algorithms. In particular, EVIMO2 is suited for supporting research in motion and object segmentation, optical flow, structure from motion, and visual (inertial) odometry in both monocular or stereo configurations.   EVIMO2 consists of 41 minutes of data from three 640$\times$480 event cameras, one 2080$\times$1552 classical color camera, inertial measurements from two six axis inertial measurement units, and millimeter accurate object poses from a Vicon motion capture system. The dataset's 173 sequences are arranged into three categories. 3.75 minutes of independently moving household objects, 22.55 minutes of static scenes, and 14.85 minutes of basic motions in shallow scenes. Some sequences were recorded in low-light conditions where conventional cameras fail. Depth and segmentation are provided at 60 Hz for the event cameras and 30 Hz for the classical camera. The masks can be regenerated using open-source code up to rates as high as 200 Hz.   This technical report briefly describes EVIMO2. The full documentation is available online. Videos of individual sequences can be sampled on the download page.
Learned Monocular Depth Priors in Visual-Inertial Initialization
Visual-inertial odometry (VIO) is the pose estimation backbone for most AR/VR and autonomous robotic systems today, in both academia and industry. However, these systems are highly sensitive to the initialization of key parameters such as sensor biases, gravity direction, and metric scale. In practical scenarios where high-parallax or variable acceleration assumptions are rarely met (e.g. hovering aerial robot, smartphone AR user not gesticulating with phone), classical visual-inertial initialization formulations often become ill-conditioned and/or fail to meaningfully converge. In this paper we target visual-inertial initialization specifically for these low-excitation scenarios critical to in-the-wild usage. We propose to circumvent the limitations of classical visual-inertial structure-from-motion (SfM) initialization by incorporating a new learning-based measurement as a higher-level input. We leverage learned monocular depth images (mono-depth) to constrain the relative depth of features, and upgrade the mono-depths to metric scale by jointly optimizing for their scales and shifts. Our experiments show a significant improvement in problem conditioning compared to a classical formulation for visual-inertial initialization, and demonstrate significant accuracy and robustness improvements relative to the state-of-the-art on public benchmarks, particularly under low-excitation scenarios. We further extend this improvement to implementation within an existing odometry system to illustrate the impact of our improved initialization method on resulting tracking trajectories.
Deep Non-rigid Structure-from-Motion: A Sequence-to-Sequence Translation Perspective
Directly regressing the non-rigid shape and camera pose from the individual 2D frame is ill-suited to the Non-Rigid Structure-from-Motion (NRSfM) problem. This frame-by-frame 3D reconstruction pipeline overlooks the inherent spatial-temporal nature of NRSfM, i.e., reconstructing the whole 3D sequence from the input 2D sequence. In this paper, we propose to model deep NRSfM from a sequence-to-sequence translation perspective, where the input 2D frame sequence is taken as a whole to reconstruct the deforming 3D non-rigid shape sequence. First, we apply a shape-motion predictor to estimate the initial non-rigid shape and camera motion from a single frame. Then we propose a context modeling module to model camera motions and complex non-rigid shapes. To tackle the difficulty in enforcing the global structure constraint within the deep framework, we propose to impose the union-of-subspace structure by replacing the self-expressiveness layer with multi-head attention and delayed regularizers, which enables end-to-end batch-wise training. Experimental results across different datasets such as Human3.6M, CMU Mocap and InterHand prove the superiority of our framework. The code will be made publicly available
Constrained Bundle Adjustment for Structure From Motion Using Uncalibrated Multi-Camera Systems
Structure from motion using uncalibrated multi-camera systems is a challenging task. This paper proposes a bundle adjustment solution that implements a baseline constraint respecting that these cameras are static to each other. We assume these cameras are mounted on a mobile platform, uncalibrated, and coarsely synchronized. To this end, we propose the baseline constraint that is formulated for the scenario in which the cameras have overlapping views. The constraint is incorporated in the bundle adjustment solution to keep the relative motion of different cameras static. Experiments were conducted using video frames of two collocated GoPro cameras mounted on a vehicle with no system calibration. These two cameras were placed capturing overlapping contents. We performed our bundle adjustment using the proposed constraint and then produced 3D dense point clouds. Evaluations were performed by comparing these dense point clouds against LiDAR reference data. We showed that, as compared to traditional bundle adjustment, our proposed method achieved an improvement of 29.38%.
SurroundDepth: Entangling Surrounding Views for Self-Supervised Multi-Camera Depth Estimation
Depth estimation from images serves as the fundamental step of 3D perception for autonomous driving and is an economical alternative to expensive depth sensors like LiDAR. The temporal photometric constraints enables self-supervised depth estimation without labels, further facilitating its application. However, most existing methods predict the depth solely based on each monocular image and ignore the correlations among multiple surrounding cameras, which are typically available for modern self-driving vehicles. In this paper, we propose a SurroundDepth method to incorporate the information from multiple surrounding views to predict depth maps across cameras. Specifically, we employ a joint network to process all the surrounding views and propose a cross-view transformer to effectively fuse the information from multiple views. We apply cross-view self-attention to efficiently enable the global interactions between multi-camera feature maps. Different from self-supervised monocular depth estimation, we are able to predict real-world scales given multi-camera extrinsic matrices. To achieve this goal, we adopt the two-frame structure-from-motion to extract scale-aware pseudo depths to pretrain the models. Further, instead of predicting the ego-motion of each individual camera, we estimate a universal ego-motion of the vehicle and transfer it to each view to achieve multi-view ego-motion consistency. In experiments, our method achieves the state-of-the-art performance on the challenging multi-camera depth estimation datasets DDAD and nuScenes.
Georeferencing of Photovoltaic Modules from Aerial Infrared Videos using Structure-from-Motion
To identify abnormal photovoltaic (PV) modules in large-scale PV plants economically, drone-mounted infrared (IR) cameras and automated video processing algorithms are frequently used. While most related works focus on the detection of abnormal modules, little has been done to automatically localize those modules within the plant. In this work, we use incremental structure-from-motion to automatically obtain geocoordinates of all PV modules in a plant based on visual cues and the measured GPS trajectory of the drone. In addition, we extract multiple IR images of each PV module. Using our method, we successfully map 99.3 % of the 35084 modules in four large-scale and one rooftop plant and extract over 2.2 million module images. As compared to our previous work, extraction misses 18 times less modules (one in 140 modules as compared to one in eight). Furthermore, two or three plant rows can be processed simultaneously, increasing module throughput and reducing flight duration by a factor of 2.1 and 3.7, respectively. Comparison with an accurate orthophoto of one of the large-scale plants yields a root mean square error of the estimated module geocoordinates of 5.87 m and a relative error within each plant row of 0.22 m to 0.82 m. Finally, we use the module geocoordinates and extracted IR images to visualize distributions of module temperatures and anomaly predictions of a deep learning classifier on a map. While the temperature distribution helps to identify disconnected strings, we also find that its detection accuracy for module anomalies reaches, or even exceeds, that of a deep learning classifier for seven out of ten common anomaly types. The software is published at https://github.com/LukasBommes/PV-Hawk.
Depth-Guided Sparse Structure-from-Motion for Movies and TV Shows
Existing approaches for Structure from Motion (SfM) produce impressive 3-D reconstruction results especially when using imagery captured with large parallax. However, to create engaging video-content in movies and TV shows, the amount by which a camera can be moved while filming a particular shot is often limited. The resulting small-motion parallax between video frames makes standard geometry-based SfM approaches not as effective for movies and TV shows. To address this challenge, we propose a simple yet effective approach that uses single-frame depth-prior obtained from a pretrained network to significantly improve geometry-based SfM for our small-parallax setting. To this end, we first use the depth-estimates of the detected keypoints to reconstruct the point cloud and camera-pose for initial two-view reconstruction. We then perform depth-regularized optimization to register new images and triangulate the new points during incremental reconstruction. To comprehensively evaluate our approach, we introduce a new dataset (StudioSfM) consisting of 130 shots with 21K frames from 15 studio-produced videos that are manually annotated by a professional CG studio. We demonstrate that our approach: (a) significantly improves the quality of 3-D reconstruction for our small-parallax setting, (b) does not cause any degradation for data with large-parallax, and (c) maintains the generalizability and scalability of geometry-based sparse SfM. Our dataset can be obtained at https://github.com/amazon-research/small-baseline-camera-tracking.
Fast, Accurate and Memory-Efficient Partial Permutation Synchronization
Previous partial permutation synchronization (PPS) algorithms, which are commonly used for multi-object matching, often involve computation-intensive and memory-demanding matrix operations. These operations become intractable for large scale structure-from-motion datasets. For pure permutation synchronization, the recent Cycle-Edge Message Passing (CEMP) framework suggests a memory-efficient and fast solution. Here we overcome the restriction of CEMP to compact groups and propose an improved algorithm, CEMP-Partial, for estimating the corruption levels of the observed partial permutations. It allows us to subsequently implement a nonconvex weighted projected power method without the need of spectral initialization. The resulting new PPS algorithm, MatchFAME (Fast, Accurate and Memory-Efficient Matching), only involves sparse matrix operations, and thus enjoys lower time and space complexities in comparison to previous PPS algorithms. We prove that under adversarial corruption, though without additive noise and with certain assumptions, CEMP-Partial is able to exactly classify corrupted and clean partial permutations. We demonstrate the state-of-the-art accuracy, speed and memory efficiency of our method on both synthetic and real datasets.
Visual Odometry for RGB-D Cameras
Visual odometry is the process of estimating the position and orientation of a camera by analyzing the images associated to it. This paper develops a quick and accurate approach to visual odometry of a moving RGB-D camera navigating on a static environment. The proposed algorithm uses SURF (Speeded Up Robust Features) as feature extractor, RANSAC (Random Sample Consensus) to filter the results and Minimum Mean Square to estimate the rigid transformation of six parameters between successive video frames. Data from a Kinect camera were used in the tests. The results show that this approach is feasible and promising, surpassing in performance the algorithms ICP (Interactive Closest Point) and SfM (Structure from Motion) in tests using a publicly available dataset.
Optimizing Elimination Templates by Greedy Parameter Search
We propose a new method for constructing elimination templates for efficient polynomial system solving of minimal problems in structure from motion, image matching, and camera tracking. We first construct a particular affine parameterization of the elimination templates for systems with a finite number of distinct solutions. Then, we use a heuristic greedy optimization strategy over the space of parameters to get a template with a small size. We test our method on 34 minimal problems in computer vision. For all of them, we found the templates either of the same or smaller size compared to the state-of-the-art. For some difficult examples, our templates are, e.g., 2.1, 2.5, 3.8, 6.6 times smaller. For the problem of refractive absolute pose estimation with unknown focal length, we have found a template that is 20 times smaller. Our experiments on synthetic data also show that the new solvers are fast and numerically accurate. We also present a fast and numerically accurate solver for the problem of relative pose estimation with unknown common focal length and radial distortion.
Event-Based Dense Reconstruction Pipeline
Event cameras are a new type of sensors that are different from traditional cameras. Each pixel is triggered asynchronously by event. The trigger event is the change of the brightness irradiated on the pixel. If the increment or decrement of brightness is higher than a certain threshold, an event is output. Compared with traditional cameras, event cameras have the advantages of high dynamic range and no motion blur. Since events are caused by the apparent motion of intensity edges, the majority of 3D reconstructed maps consist only of scene edges, i.e., semi-dense maps, which is not enough for some applications. In this paper, we propose a pipeline to realize event-based dense reconstruction. First, deep learning is used to reconstruct intensity images from events. And then, structure from motion (SfM) is used to estimate camera intrinsic, extrinsic and sparse point cloud. Finally, multi-view stereo (MVS) is used to complete dense reconstruction.
DiffPoseNet: Direct Differentiable Camera Pose Estimation
Current deep neural network approaches for camera pose estimation rely on scene structure for 3D motion estimation, but this decreases the robustness and thereby makes cross-dataset generalization difficult. In contrast, classical approaches to structure from motion estimate 3D motion utilizing optical flow and then compute depth. Their accuracy, however, depends strongly on the quality of the optical flow. To avoid this issue, direct methods have been proposed, which separate 3D motion from depth estimation but compute 3D motion using only image gradients in the form of normal flow. In this paper, we introduce a network NFlowNet, for normal flow estimation which is used to enforce robust and direct constraints. In particular, normal flow is used to estimate relative camera pose based on the cheirality (depth positivity) constraint. We achieve this by formulating the optimization problem as a differentiable cheirality layer, which allows for end-to-end learning of camera pose. We perform extensive qualitative and quantitative evaluation of the proposed DiffPoseNet's sensitivity to noise and its generalization across datasets. We compare our approach to existing state-of-the-art methods on KITTI, TartanAir, and TUM-RGBD datasets.
Asynchronous Optimisation for Event-based Visual Odometry
Event cameras open up new possibilities for robotic perception due to their low latency and high dynamic range. On the other hand, developing effective event-based vision algorithms that fully exploit the beneficial properties of event cameras remains work in progress. In this paper, we focus on event-based visual odometry (VO). While existing event-driven VO pipelines have adopted continuous-time representations to asynchronously process event data, they either assume a known map, restrict the camera to planar trajectories, or integrate other sensors into the system. Towards map-free event-only monocular VO in SE(3), we propose an asynchronous structure-from-motion optimisation back-end. Our formulation is underpinned by a principled joint optimisation problem involving non-parametric Gaussian Process motion modelling and incremental maximum a posteriori inference. A high-performance incremental computation engine is employed to reason about the camera trajectory with every incoming event. We demonstrate the robustness of our asynchronous back-end in comparison to frame-based methods which depend on accurate temporal accumulation of measurements.
Distributed Riemannian Optimization with Lazy Communication for Collaborative Geometric Estimation
We present the first distributed optimization algorithm with lazy communication for collaborative geometric estimation, the backbone of modern collaborative simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) and structure-from-motion (SfM) applications. Our method allows agents to cooperatively reconstruct a shared geometric model on a central server by fusing individual observations, but without the need to transmit potentially sensitive information about the agents themselves (such as their locations). Furthermore, to alleviate the burden of communication during iterative optimization, we design a set of communication triggering conditions that enable agents to selectively upload a targeted subset of local information that is useful to global optimization. Our approach thus achieves significant communication reduction with minimal impact on optimization performance. As our main theoretical contribution, we prove that our method converges to first-order critical points with a global sublinear convergence rate. Numerical evaluations on bundle adjustment problems from collaborative SLAM and SfM datasets show that our method performs competitively against existing distributed techniques, while achieving up to 78% total communication reduction.
MultiRes-NetVLAD: Augmenting Place Recognition Training with Low-Resolution Imagery
Visual Place Recognition (VPR) is a crucial component of 6-DoF localization, visual SLAM and structure-from-motion pipelines, tasked to generate an initial list of place match hypotheses by matching global place descriptors. However, commonly-used CNN-based methods either process multiple image resolutions after training or use a single resolution and limit multi-scale feature extraction to the last convolutional layer during training. In this paper, we augment NetVLAD representation learning with low-resolution image pyramid encoding which leads to richer place representations. The resultant multi-resolution feature pyramid can be conveniently aggregated through VLAD into a single compact representation, avoiding the need for concatenation or summation of multiple patches in recent multi-scale approaches. Furthermore, we show that the underlying learnt feature tensor can be combined with existing multi-scale approaches to improve their baseline performance. Evaluation on 15 viewpoint-varying and viewpoint-consistent benchmarking datasets confirm that the proposed MultiRes-NetVLAD leads to state-of-the-art Recall@N performance for global descriptor based retrieval, compared against 11 existing techniques. Source code is publicly available at https://github.com/Ahmedest61/MultiRes-NetVLAD.
Scalable Cluster-Consistency Statistics for Robust Multi-Object Matching
We develop new statistics for robustly filtering corrupted keypoint matches in the structure from motion pipeline. The statistics are based on consistency constraints that arise within the clustered structure of the graph of keypoint matches. The statistics are designed to give smaller values to corrupted matches and than uncorrupted matches. These new statistics are combined with an iterative reweighting scheme to filter keypoints, which can then be fed into any standard structure from motion pipeline. This filtering method can be efficiently implemented and scaled to massive datasets as it only requires sparse matrix multiplication. We demonstrate the efficacy of this method on synthetic and real structure from motion datasets and show that it achieves state-of-the-art accuracy and speed in these tasks.
High-resolution Ecosystem Mapping in Repetitive Environments Using Dual Camera SLAM
Structure from Motion (SfM) techniques are being increasingly used to create 3D maps from images in many domains including environmental monitoring. However, SfM techniques are often confounded in visually repetitive environments as they rely primarily on globally distinct image features. Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) techniques offer a potential solution in visually repetitive environments since they use local feature matching, but SLAM approaches work best with wide-angle cameras that are often unsuitable for documenting the environmental system of interest. We resolve this issue by proposing a dual-camera SLAM approach that uses a forward facing wide-angle camera for localization and a downward facing narrower angle, high-resolution camera for documentation. Video frames acquired by the forward facing camera video are processed using a standard SLAM approach providing a trajectory of the imaging system through the environment which is then used to guide the registration of the documentation camera images. Fragmentary maps, initially produced from the documentation camera images via monocular SLAM, are subsequently scaled and aligned with the localization camera trajectory and finally subjected to a global optimization procedure to produce a unified, refined map. An experimental comparison with several state-of-the-art SfM approaches shows the dual-camera SLAM approach to perform better in repetitive environmental systems based on select samples of ground control point markers.
De-rendering 3D Objects in the Wild
With increasing focus on augmented and virtual reality applications (XR) comes the demand for algorithms that can lift objects from images and videos into representations that are suitable for a wide variety of related 3D tasks. Large-scale deployment of XR devices and applications means that we cannot solely rely on supervised learning, as collecting and annotating data for the unlimited variety of objects in the real world is infeasible. We present a weakly supervised method that is able to decompose a single image of an object into shape (depth and normals), material (albedo, reflectivity and shininess) and global lighting parameters. For training, the method only relies on a rough initial shape estimate of the training objects to bootstrap the learning process. This shape supervision can come for example from a pretrained depth network or - more generically - from a traditional structure-from-motion pipeline. In our experiments, we show that the method can successfully de-render 2D images into a decomposed 3D representation and generalizes to unseen object categories. Since in-the-wild evaluation is difficult due to the lack of ground truth data, we also introduce a photo-realistic synthetic test set that allows for quantitative evaluation.
On the Instability of Relative Pose Estimation and RANSAC's Role
In this paper we study the numerical instabilities of the 5- and 7-point problems for essential and fundamental matrix estimation in multiview geometry. In both cases we characterize the ill-posed world scenes where the condition number for epipolar estimation is infinite. We also characterize the ill-posed instances in terms of the given image data. To arrive at these results, we present a general framework for analyzing the conditioning of minimal problems in multiview geometry, based on Riemannian manifolds. Experiments with synthetic and real-world data then reveal a striking conclusion: that Random Sample Consensus (RANSAC) in Structure-from-Motion (SfM) does not only serve to filter out outliers, but RANSAC also selects for well-conditioned image data, sufficiently separated from the ill-posed locus that our theory predicts. Our findings suggest that, in future work, one could try to accelerate and increase the success of RANSAC by testing only well-conditioned image data.
Road-aware Monocular Structure from Motion and Homography Estimation
Structure from motion (SFM) and ground plane homography estimation are critical to autonomous driving and other robotics applications. Recently, much progress has been made in using deep neural networks for SFM and homography estimation respectively. However, directly applying existing methods for ground plane homography estimation may fail because the road is often a small part of the scene. Besides, the performances of deep SFM approaches are still inferior to traditional methods. In this paper, we propose a method that learns to solve both problems in an end-to-end manner, improving performance on both. The proposed networks consist of a Depth-CNN, a Pose-CNN and a Ground-CNN. The Depth-CNN and Pose-CNN estimate dense depth map and ego-motion respectively, solving SFM, while the Pose-CNN and Ground-CNN followed by a homography layer solve the ground plane estimation problem. By enforcing coherency between SFM and homography estimation results, the whole network can be trained end to end using photometric loss and homography loss without any groundtruth except the road segmentation provided by an off-the-shelf segmenter. Comprehensive experiments are conducted on KITTI benchmark to demonstrate promising results compared with various state-of-the-art approaches.
Critical configurations for three projective views
The problem of structure from motion is concerned with recovering the 3-dimensional structure of an object from a set of 2-dimensional images taken by unknown cameras. Generally, all information can be uniquely recovered if enough images and point correspondences are provided, yet there are certain cases where unique recovery is impossible; these are called \emph{critical configurations}. We use an algebraic approach to study the critical configurations for three projective cameras. We show that all critical configurations lie on the intersection of quadric surfaces, and classify exactly which intersections constitute a critical configuration.
Critical configurations for two projective views, a new approach
The problem of structure from motion is concerned with recovering 3-dimensional structure of an object from a set of 2-dimensional images. Generally, all information can be uniquely recovered if enough images and image points are provided, but there are certain cases where unique recovery is impossible; these are called critical configurations. In this paper we use an algebraic approach to study the critical configurations for two projective cameras. We show that all critical configurations lie on quadric surfaces, and classify exactly which quadrics constitute a critical configuration. The paper also describes the relation between the different reconstructions when unique reconstruction is impossible.
Dense Depth Priors for Neural Radiance Fields from Sparse Input Views
Neural radiance fields (NeRF) encode a scene into a neural representation that enables photo-realistic rendering of novel views. However, a successful reconstruction from RGB images requires a large number of input views taken under static conditions - typically up to a few hundred images for room-size scenes. Our method aims to synthesize novel views of whole rooms from an order of magnitude fewer images. To this end, we leverage dense depth priors in order to constrain the NeRF optimization. First, we take advantage of the sparse depth data that is freely available from the structure from motion (SfM) preprocessing step used to estimate camera poses. Second, we use depth completion to convert these sparse points into dense depth maps and uncertainty estimates, which are used to guide NeRF optimization. Our method enables data-efficient novel view synthesis on challenging indoor scenes, using as few as 18 images for an entire scene.
Multi-Resolution Elevation Mapping and Safe Landing Site Detection with Applications to Planetary Rotorcraft
In this paper, we propose a resource-efficient approach to provide an autonomous UAV with an on-board perception method to detect safe, hazard-free landing sites during flights over complex 3D terrain. We aggregate 3D measurements acquired from a sequence of monocular images by a Structure-from-Motion approach into a local, robot-centric, multi-resolution elevation map of the overflown terrain, which fuses depth measurements according to their lateral surface resolution (pixel-footprint) in a probabilistic framework based on the concept of dynamic Level of Detail. Map aggregation only requires depth maps and the associated poses, which are obtained from an onboard Visual Odometry algorithm. An efficient landing site detection method then exploits the features of the underlying multi-resolution map to detect safe landing sites based on slope, roughness, and quality of the reconstructed terrain surface. The evaluation of the performance of the mapping and landing site detection modules are analyzed independently and jointly in simulated and real-world experiments in order to establish the efficacy of the proposed approach.
Damage Estimation and Localization from Sparse Aerial Imagery
Aerial images provide important situational awareness for responding to natural disasters such as hurricanes. They are well-suited for providing information for damage estimation and localization (DEL); i.e., characterizing the type and spatial extent of damage following a disaster. Despite recent advances in sensing and unmanned aerial systems technology, much of post-disaster aerial imagery is still taken by handheld DSLR cameras from small, manned, fixed-wing aircraft. However, these handheld cameras lack IMU information, and images are taken opportunistically post-event by operators. As such, DEL from such imagery is still a highly manual and time-consuming process. We propose an approach to both detect damage in aerial images and localize it in world coordinates, with specific focus on detecting and localizing flooding. The approach is based on using structure from motion to relate image coordinates to world coordinates via a projective transformation, using class activation mapping to detect the extent of damage in an image, and applying the projective transformation to localize damage in world coordinates. We evaluate the performance of our approach on post-event data from the 2016 Louisiana floods, and find that our approach achieves a precision of 88%. Given this high precision using limited data, we argue that this approach is currently viable for fast and effective DEL from handheld aerial imagery for disaster response.
Event and Activity Recognition in Video Surveillance for Cyber-Physical Systems
This chapter aims to aid the development of Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS) in automated understanding of events and activities in various applications of video-surveillance. These events are mostly captured by drones, CCTVs or novice and unskilled individuals on low-end devices. Being unconstrained, these videos are immensely challenging due to a number of quality factors. We present an extensive account of the various approaches taken to solve the problem over the years. This ranges from methods as early as Structure from Motion (SFM) based approaches to recent solution frameworks involving deep neural networks. We show that the long-term motion patterns alone play a pivotal role in the task of recognizing an event. Consequently each video is significantly represented by a fixed number of key-frames using a graph-based approach. Only the temporal features are exploited using a hybrid Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) + Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) architecture. The results we obtain are encouraging as they outperform standard temporal CNNs and are at par with those using spatial information along with motion cues. Further exploring multistream models, we conceive a multi-tier fusion strategy for the spatial and temporal wings of a network. A consolidated representation of the respective individual prediction vectors on video and frame levels is obtained using a biased conflation technique. The fusion strategy endows us with greater rise in precision on each stage as compared to the state-of-the-art methods, and thus a powerful consensus is achieved in classification. Results are recorded on four benchmark datasets widely used in the domain of action recognition, namely CCV, HMDB, UCF-101 and KCV. It is inferable that focusing on better classification of the video sequences certainly leads to robust actuation of a system designed for event surveillance and object cum activity tracking.
Modeling dynamic target deformation in camera calibration
Most approaches to camera calibration rely on calibration targets of well-known geometry. During data acquisition, calibration target and camera system are typically moved w.r.t. each other, to allow image coverage and perspective versatility. We show that moving the target can lead to small temporary deformations of the target, which can introduce significant errors into the calibration result. While static inaccuracies of calibration targets have been addressed in previous works, to our knowledge, none of the existing approaches can capture time-varying, dynamic deformations. To achieve high-accuracy calibrations despite moving the target, we propose a way to explicitly model dynamic target deformations in camera calibration. This is achieved by using a low-dimensional deformation model with only few parameters per image, which can be optimized jointly with target poses and intrinsics. We demonstrate the effectiveness of modeling dynamic deformations using different calibration targets and show its significance in a structure-from-motion application.
Hyperspectral 3D Mapping of Underwater Environments
Hyperspectral imaging has been increasingly used for underwater survey applications over the past years. As many hyperspectral cameras work as push-broom scanners, their use is usually limited to the creation of photo-mosaics based on a flat surface approximation and by interpolating the camera pose from dead-reckoning navigation. Yet, because of drift in the navigation and the mostly wrong flat surface assumption, the quality of the obtained photo-mosaics is often too low to support adequate analysis.In this paper we present an initial method for creating hyperspectral 3D reconstructions of underwater environments. By fusing the data gathered by a classical RGB camera, an inertial navigation system and a hyperspectral push-broom camera, we show that the proposed method creates highly accurate 3D reconstructions with hyperspectral textures. We propose to combine techniques from simultaneous localization and mapping, structure-from-motion and 3D reconstruction and advantageously use them to create 3D models with hyperspectral texture, allowing us to overcome the flat surface assumption and the classical limitation of dead-reckoning navigation.
Rotation Averaging in a Split Second: A Primal-Dual Method and a Closed-Form for Cycle Graphs
A cornerstone of geometric reconstruction, rotation averaging seeks the set of absolute rotations that optimally explains a set of measured relative orientations between them. In spite of being an integral part of bundle adjustment and structure-from-motion, averaging rotations is both a non-convex and high-dimensional optimization problem. In this paper, we address it from a maximum likelihood estimation standpoint and make a twofold contribution. Firstly, we set forth a novel initialization-free primal-dual method which we show empirically to converge to the global optimum. Further, we derive what is to our knowledge, the first optimal closed-form solution for rotation averaging in cycle graphs and contextualize this result within spectral graph theory. Our proposed methods achieve a significant gain both in precision and performance.
Single-Camera 3D Head Fitting for Mixed Reality Clinical Applications
We address the problem of estimating the shape of a person's head, defined as the geometry of the complete head surface, from a video taken with a single moving camera, and determining the alignment of the fitted 3D head for all video frames, irrespective of the person's pose. 3D head reconstructions commonly tend to focus on perfecting the face reconstruction, leaving the scalp to a statistical approximation. Our goal is to reconstruct the head model of each person to enable future mixed reality applications. To do this, we recover a dense 3D reconstruction and camera information via structure-from-motion and multi-view stereo. These are then used in a new two-stage fitting process to recover the 3D head shape by iteratively fitting a 3D morphable model of the head with the dense reconstruction in canonical space and fitting it to each person's head, using both traditional facial landmarks and scalp features extracted from the head's segmentation mask. Our approach recovers consistent geometry for varying head shapes, from videos taken by different people, with different smartphones, and in a variety of environments from living rooms to outdoor spaces.
Dynamic Scene Novel View Synthesis via Deferred Spatio-temporal Consistency
Structure from motion (SfM) enables us to reconstruct a scene via casual capture from cameras at different viewpoints, and novel view synthesis (NVS) allows us to render a captured scene from a new viewpoint. Both are hard with casual capture and dynamic scenes: SfM produces noisy and spatio-temporally sparse reconstructed point clouds, resulting in NVS with spatio-temporally inconsistent effects. We consider SfM and NVS parts together to ease the challenge. First, for SfM, we recover stable camera poses, then we defer the requirement for temporally-consistent points across the scene and reconstruct only a sparse point cloud per timestep that is noisy in space-time. Second, for NVS, we present a variational diffusion formulation on depths and colors that lets us robustly cope with the noise by enforcing spatio-temporal consistency via per-pixel reprojection weights derived from the input views. Together, this deferred approach generates novel views for dynamic scenes without requiring challenging spatio-temporally consistent reconstructions nor training complex models on large datasets. We demonstrate our algorithm on real-world dynamic scenes against classic and more recent learning-based baseline approaches.
On the Limits of Pseudo Ground Truth in Visual Camera Re-localisation
Benchmark datasets that measure camera pose accuracy have driven progress in visual re-localisation research. To obtain poses for thousands of images, it is common to use a reference algorithm to generate pseudo ground truth. Popular choices include Structure-from-Motion (SfM) and Simultaneous-Localisation-and-Mapping (SLAM) using additional sensors like depth cameras if available. Re-localisation benchmarks thus measure how well each method replicates the results of the reference algorithm. This begs the question whether the choice of the reference algorithm favours a certain family of re-localisation methods. This paper analyzes two widely used re-localisation datasets and shows that evaluation outcomes indeed vary with the choice of the reference algorithm. We thus question common beliefs in the re-localisation literature, namely that learning-based scene coordinate regression outperforms classical feature-based methods, and that RGB-D-based methods outperform RGB-based methods. We argue that any claims on ranking re-localisation methods should take the type of the reference algorithm, and the similarity of the methods to the reference algorithm, into account.
DensePose 3D: Lifting Canonical Surface Maps of Articulated Objects to the Third Dimension
We tackle the problem of monocular 3D reconstruction of articulated objects like humans and animals. We contribute DensePose 3D, a method that can learn such reconstructions in a weakly supervised fashion from 2D image annotations only. This is in stark contrast with previous deformable reconstruction methods that use parametric models such as SMPL pre-trained on a large dataset of 3D object scans. Because it does not require 3D scans, DensePose 3D can be used for learning a wide range of articulated categories such as different animal species. The method learns, in an end-to-end fashion, a soft partition of a given category-specific 3D template mesh into rigid parts together with a monocular reconstruction network that predicts the part motions such that they reproject correctly onto 2D DensePose-like surface annotations of the object. The decomposition of the object into parts is regularized by expressing part assignments as a combination of the smooth eigenfunctions of the Laplace-Beltrami operator. We show significant improvements compared to state-of-the-art non-rigid structure-from-motion baselines on both synthetic and real data on categories of humans and animals.
Solving Viewing Graph Optimization for Simultaneous Position and Rotation Registration
A viewing graph is a set of unknown camera poses, as the vertices, and the observed relative motions, as the edges. Solving the viewing graph is an essential step in a Structure-from-Motion procedure, where a set of relative motions is obtained from a collection of 2D images. Almost all methods in the literature solve for the rotations separately, through rotation averaging process, and use them for solving the positions. Obtaining positions is the challenging part because the translation observations only tell the direction of the motions. It becomes more challenging when the set of edges comprises pairwise translation observations between either near and far cameras. In this paper an iterative method is proposed that overcomes these issues. Also a method is proposed which obtains the rotations and positions simultaneously. Experimental results show the-state-of-the-art performance of the proposed methods.
Burst Imaging for Light-Constrained Structure-From-Motion
Images captured under extremely low light conditions are noise-limited, which can cause existing robotic vision algorithms to fail. In this paper we develop an image processing technique for aiding 3D reconstruction from images acquired in low light conditions. Our technique, based on burst photography, uses direct methods for image registration within bursts of short exposure time images to improve the robustness and accuracy of feature-based structure-from-motion (SfM). We demonstrate improved SfM performance in challenging light-constrained scenes, including quantitative evaluations that show improved feature performance and camera pose estimates. Additionally, we show that our method converges more frequently to correct reconstructions than the state-of-the-art. Our method is a significant step towards allowing robots to operate in low light conditions, with potential applications to robots operating in environments such as underground mines and night time operation.
3D Reconstruction from public webcams
We investigate the possibility of 3D scene reconstruction from two or more overlapping webcam streams. A large, and growing, number of webcams observe places of interest and are publicly accessible. The question naturally arises: can we make use of this free data source for 3D computer vision? It turns out that the task to reconstruct scene structure from webcam streams is very different from standard structure-from-motion (SfM), and conventional SfM pipelines fail. In the webcam setting there are very few views of the same scene, in most cases only the minimum of two. These viewpoints often have large baselines and/or scale differences, their overlap is rather limited, and besides unknown internal and external calibration also their temporal synchronisation is unknown. On the other hand, they record rather large fields of view continuously over long time spans, so that they regularly observe dynamic objects moving through the scene. We show how to leverage recent advances in several areas of computer vision to adapt SfM reconstruction to this particular scenario and reconstruct the unknown camera poses, the 3D scene structure, and the 3D trajectories of dynamic objects.
Pixel-Perfect Structure-from-Motion with Featuremetric Refinement
Finding local features that are repeatable across multiple views is a cornerstone of sparse 3D reconstruction. The classical image matching paradigm detects keypoints per-image once and for all, which can yield poorly-localized features and propagate large errors to the final geometry. In this paper, we refine two key steps of structure-from-motion by a direct alignment of low-level image information from multiple views: we first adjust the initial keypoint locations prior to any geometric estimation, and subsequently refine points and camera poses as a post-processing. This refinement is robust to large detection noise and appearance changes, as it optimizes a featuremetric error based on dense features predicted by a neural network. This significantly improves the accuracy of camera poses and scene geometry for a wide range of keypoint detectors, challenging viewing conditions, and off-the-shelf deep features. Our system easily scales to large image collections, enabling pixel-perfect crowd-sourced localization at scale. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/cvg/pixel-perfect-sfm as an add-on to the popular SfM software COLMAP.
PR-RRN: Pairwise-Regularized Residual-Recursive Networks for Non-rigid Structure-from-Motion
We propose PR-RRN, a novel neural-network based method for Non-rigid Structure-from-Motion (NRSfM). PR-RRN consists of Residual-Recursive Networks (RRN) and two extra regularization losses. RRN is designed to effectively recover 3D shape and camera from 2D keypoints with novel residual-recursive structure. As NRSfM is a highly under-constrained problem, we propose two new pairwise regularization to further regularize the reconstruction. The Rigidity-based Pairwise Contrastive Loss regularizes the shape representation by encouraging higher similarity between the representations of high-rigidity pairs of frames than low-rigidity pairs. We propose minimum singular-value ratio to measure the pairwise rigidity. The Pairwise Consistency Loss enforces the reconstruction to be consistent when the estimated shapes and cameras are exchanged between pairs. Our approach achieves state-of-the-art performance on CMU MOCAP and PASCAL3D+ dataset.
Continuous-Time Spatiotemporal Calibration of a Rolling Shutter Camera-IMU System
The rolling shutter (RS) mechanism is widely used by consumer-grade cameras, which are essential parts in smartphones and autonomous vehicles. The RS effect leads to image distortion upon relative motion between a camera and the scene. This effect needs to be considered in video stabilization, structure from motion, and vision-aided odometry, for which recent studies have improved earlier global shutter (GS) methods by accounting for the RS effect. However, it is still unclear how the RS affects spatiotemporal calibration of the camera in a sensor assembly, which is crucial to good performance in aforementioned applications.   This work takes the camera-IMU system as an example and looks into the RS effect on its spatiotemporal calibration. To this end, we develop a calibration method for a RS-camera-IMU system with continuous-time B-splines by using a calibration target. Unlike in calibrating GS cameras, every observation of a landmark on the target has a unique camera pose fitted by continuous-time B-splines. With simulated data generated from four sets of public calibration data, we show that RS can noticeably affect the extrinsic parameters, causing errors about 1$^\circ$ in orientation and 2 $cm$ in translation with a RS setting as in common smartphone cameras. With real data collected by two industrial camera-IMU systems, we find that considering the RS effect gives more accurate and consistent spatiotemporal calibration. Moreover, our method also accurately calibrates the inter-line delay of the RS. The code for simulation and calibration is publicly available.
Context Aware Object Geotagging
Localization of street objects from images has gained a lot of attention in recent years. We propose an approach to improve asset geolocation from street view imagery by enhancing the quality of the metadata associated with the images using Structure from Motion. The predicted object geolocation is further refined by imposing contextual geographic information extracted from OpenStreetMap. Our pipeline is validated experimentally against the state of the art approaches for geotagging traffic lights.
Self-Supervised Learning of Depth and Ego-Motion from Video by Alternative Training and Geometric Constraints from 3D to 2D
Self-supervised learning of depth and ego-motion from unlabeled monocular video has acquired promising results and drawn extensive attention. Most existing methods jointly train the depth and pose networks by photometric consistency of adjacent frames based on the principle of structure-from-motion (SFM). However, the coupling relationship of the depth and pose networks seriously influences the learning performance, and the re-projection relations is sensitive to scale ambiguity, especially for pose learning. In this paper, we aim to improve the depth-pose learning performance without the auxiliary tasks and address the above issues by alternative training each task and incorporating the epipolar geometric constraints into the Iterative Closest Point (ICP) based point clouds match process. Distinct from jointly training the depth and pose networks, our key idea is to better utilize the mutual dependency of these two tasks by alternatively training each network with respective losses while fixing the other. We also design a log-scale 3D structural consistency loss to put more emphasis on the smaller depth values during training. To makes the optimization easier, we further incorporate the epipolar geometry into the ICP based learning process for pose learning. Extensive experiments on various benchmarks datasets indicate the superiority of our algorithm over the state-of-the-art self-supervised methods.
Adaptive Identification of Legged Robotic Kinematic Structure
Model-based control usually relies on an accurate model, which is often obtained from CAD and actuator models. The more accurate the model the better the control performance. However, in bipedal robots that demonstrate high agility actions, such as running and hopping, the robot hardware will suffer from impacts with the environment and deform in vulnerable parts, which invalidates the predefined model. Thus, it is desired to have an adaptable kinematic structure that takes deformation into consideration. To account for this we propose an approach that models all of the robotic joints as 6-DOF joints and develop an algorithm that can identify the kinematic structure from motion capture data. We evaluate the algorithm's performance both in simulation - a three link pendulum, and on a bipedal robot - ATRIAS. In the simulated case the algorithm produces a result that has a 3.6% error compared to the ground truth, and on the real life bipedal robot the algorithm's result confirms our prior assumption where the joint deforms on out-of-plane degrees of freedom. In addition our algorithm is able to predict torques and forces using the reconstructed joint mode.
Optimal Triangulation Method is Not Really Optimal
Triangulation refers to the problem of finding a 3D point from its 2D projections on multiple camera images. For solving this problem, it is the common practice to use so-called optimal triangulation method, which we call the L2 method in this paper. But, the method can be optimal only if we assume no uncertainty in the camera parameters. Through extensive comparison on synthetic and real data, we observed that the L2 method is actually not the best choice when there is uncertainty in the camera parameters. Interestingly, it can be observed that the simple mid-point method outperforms other methods. Apart from its high performance, the mid-point method has a simple closed formed solution for multiple camera images while the L2 method is hard to be used for more than two camera images. Therefore, in contrast to the common practice, we argue that the simple mid-point method should be used in structure-from-motion applications where there is uncertainty in camera parameters.
Depth-supervised NeRF: Fewer Views and Faster Training for Free
A commonly observed failure mode of Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) is fitting incorrect geometries when given an insufficient number of input views. One potential reason is that standard volumetric rendering does not enforce the constraint that most of a scene's geometry consist of empty space and opaque surfaces. We formalize the above assumption through DS-NeRF (Depth-supervised Neural Radiance Fields), a loss for learning radiance fields that takes advantage of readily-available depth supervision. We leverage the fact that current NeRF pipelines require images with known camera poses that are typically estimated by running structure-from-motion (SFM). Crucially, SFM also produces sparse 3D points that can be used as "free" depth supervision during training: we add a loss to encourage the distribution of a ray's terminating depth matches a given 3D keypoint, incorporating depth uncertainty. DS-NeRF can render better images given fewer training views while training 2-3x faster. Further, we show that our loss is compatible with other recently proposed NeRF methods, demonstrating that depth is a cheap and easily digestible supervisory signal. And finally, we find that DS-NeRF can support other types of depth supervision such as scanned depth sensors and RGB-D reconstruction outputs.
On the Coupling of Depth and Egomotion Networks for Self-Supervised Structure from Motion
Structure from motion (SfM) has recently been formulated as a self-supervised learning problem, where neural network models of depth and egomotion are learned jointly through view synthesis. Herein, we address the open problem of how to best couple, or link, the depth and egomotion network components, so that information such as a common scale factor can be shared between the networks. Towards this end, we introduce several notions of coupling, categorize existing approaches, and present a novel tightly-coupled approach that leverages the interdependence of depth and egomotion at training time and at test time. Our approach uses iterative view synthesis to recursively update the egomotion network input, permitting contextual information to be passed between the components. We demonstrate through substantial experiments that our approach promotes consistency between the depth and egomotion predictions at test time, improves generalization, and leads to state-of-the-art accuracy on indoor and outdoor depth and egomotion evaluation benchmarks.
TransCamP: Graph Transformer for 6-DoF Camera Pose Estimation
Camera pose estimation or camera relocalization is the centerpiece in numerous computer vision tasks such as visual odometry, structure from motion (SfM) and SLAM. In this paper we propose a neural network approach with a graph transformer backbone, namely TransCamP, to address the camera relocalization problem. In contrast with prior work where the pose regression is mainly guided by photometric consistency, TransCamP effectively fuses the image features, camera pose information and inter-frame relative camera motions into encoded graph attributes and is trained towards the graph consistency and accuracy instead, yielding significantly higher computational efficiency. By leveraging graph transformer layers with edge features and enabling tensorized adjacency matrix, TransCamP dynamically captures the global attention and thus endows the pose graph with evolving structures to achieve improved robustness and accuracy. In addition, optional temporal transformer layers actively enhance the spatiotemporal inter-frame relation for sequential inputs. Evaluation of the proposed network on various public benchmarks demonstrates that TransCamP outperforms state-of-the-art approaches.
Correlation Filter of 2D Laser Scans For Indoor Environment
Modern laser SLAM (simultaneous localization and mapping) and structure from motion algorithms face the problem of processing redundant data. Even if a sensor does not move, it still continues to capture scans that should be processed. This paper presents the novel filter that allows dropping 2D scans that bring no new information to the system. Experiments on MIT and TUM datasets show that it is possible to drop more than half of the scans. Moreover thepaper describes the formulas that enable filter adaptation to a particular robot with known speed and characteristics of lidar. In addition, the indoor corridor detector is introduced that also can be applied to any specific shape of a corridor and sensor.
Reconstructing Small 3D Objects in front of a Textured Background
We present a technique for a complete 3D reconstruction of small objects moving in front of a textured background. It is a particular variation of multibody structure from motion, which specializes to two objects only. The scene is captured in several static configurations between which the relative pose of the two objects may change. We reconstruct every static configuration individually and segment the points locally by finding multiple poses of cameras that capture the scene's other configurations. Then, the local segmentation results are combined, and the reconstructions are merged into the resulting model of the scene. In experiments with real artifacts, we show that our approach has practical advantages when reconstructing 3D objects from all sides. In this setting, our method outperforms the state-of-the-art. We integrate our method into the state of the art 3D reconstruction pipeline COLMAP.
On Incremental Structure-from-Motion using Lines
Humans tend to build environments with structure, which consists of mainly planar surfaces. From the intersection of planar surfaces arise straight lines. Lines have more degrees-of-freedom than points. Thus, line-based Structure-from-Motion (SfM) provides more information about the environment. In this paper, we present solutions for SfM using lines, namely, incremental SfM. These approaches consist of designing state observers for a camera's dynamical visual system looking at a 3D line. We start by presenting a model that uses spherical coordinates for representing the line's moment vector. We show that this parameterization has singularities, and therefore we introduce a more suitable model that considers the line's moment and shortest viewing ray. Concerning the observers, we present two different methodologies. The first uses a memory-less state-of-the-art framework for dynamic visual systems. Since the previous states of the robotic agent are accessible -- while performing the 3D mapping of the environment -- the second approach aims at exploiting the use of memory to improve the estimation accuracy and convergence speed. The two models and the two observers are evaluated in simulation and real data, where mobile and manipulator robots are used.
Snowcover Survey over an Arctic Glacier Forefield: Contribution of Photogrammetry to Identify "Icing" Variability and Processes
Current climate shift has significant impacts on both quality and quantity of snow precipitation. This directly influences spatial variability of the snowpack as well as cumulative snow height. Contemporary glacier retreat reorganizes periglacial morphology: while the glacier area decreases, the moraine area increases. The latter is becoming a new water storage potential almost as important as the glacier itself, but with a much more complex topography. This work hence fills one of the missing variables of the hydrological budget equation of an arctic glacier basin by providing an estimate of the snow water equivalent (SWE) of the moraine contribution. Such a result is achieved by investigating Structure from Motion (SfM) image processing applied to pictures collected from an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) as a method to produce snow depth maps over the proglacial moraine area. Several UAV campaigns were carried out on a small glacial basin in Spitsbergen (Arctic): measurements were made at the maximum snow accumulation season (late April) while reference topography maps were acquired at the end of hydrological year (late September) when the moraine is mostly free of snow. Snow depth is determined from Digital Surface Model (DSM) subtraction. Using dedicated and natural ground control points for relative positioning of the DSMs, the relative DSM georeferencing with sub-meter accuracy removes the main source of uncertainty when assessing snow depth. For areas where snow is deposited on bare rock surfaces, the correlation between avalanche probe in-situ snow depth measurements and DSM differences is excellent. Differences in ice covered areas between the two measurement techniques are attributed to the different quantities measured.
Large-scale Localization Datasets in Crowded Indoor Spaces
Estimating the precise location of a camera using visual localization enables interesting applications such as augmented reality or robot navigation. This is particularly useful in indoor environments where other localization technologies, such as GNSS, fail. Indoor spaces impose interesting challenges on visual localization algorithms: occlusions due to people, textureless surfaces, large viewpoint changes, low light, repetitive textures, etc. Existing indoor datasets are either comparably small or do only cover a subset of the mentioned challenges. In this paper, we introduce 5 new indoor datasets for visual localization in challenging real-world environments. They were captured in a large shopping mall and a large metro station in Seoul, South Korea, using a dedicated mapping platform consisting of 10 cameras and 2 laser scanners. In order to obtain accurate ground truth camera poses, we developed a robust LiDAR SLAM which provides initial poses that are then refined using a novel structure-from-motion based optimization. We present a benchmark of modern visual localization algorithms on these challenging datasets showing superior performance of structure-based methods using robust image features. The datasets are available at: https://naverlabs.com/datasets
Wide-Baseline Multi-Camera Calibration using Person Re-Identification
We address the problem of estimating the 3D pose of a network of cameras for large-environment wide-baseline scenarios, e.g., cameras for construction sites, sports stadiums, and public spaces. This task is challenging since detecting and matching the same 3D keypoint observed from two very different camera views is difficult, making standard structure-from-motion (SfM) pipelines inapplicable. In such circumstances, treating people in the scene as "keypoints" and associating them across different camera views can be an alternative method for obtaining correspondences. Based on this intuition, we propose a method that uses ideas from person re-identification (re-ID) for wide-baseline camera calibration. Our method first employs a re-ID method to associate human bounding boxes across cameras, then converts bounding box correspondences to point correspondences, and finally solves for camera pose using multi-view geometry and bundle adjustment. Since our method does not require specialized calibration targets except for visible people, it applies to situations where frequent calibration updates are required. We perform extensive experiments on datasets captured from scenes of different sizes, camera settings (indoor and outdoor), and human activities (walking, playing basketball, construction). Experiment results show that our method achieves similar performance to standard SfM methods relying on manually labeled point correspondences.
Deep Permutation Equivariant Structure from Motion
Existing deep methods produce highly accurate 3D reconstructions in stereo and multiview stereo settings, i.e., when cameras are both internally and externally calibrated. Nevertheless, the challenge of simultaneous recovery of camera poses and 3D scene structure in multiview settings with deep networks is still outstanding. Inspired by projective factorization for Structure from Motion (SFM) and by deep matrix completion techniques, we propose a neural network architecture that, given a set of point tracks in multiple images of a static scene, recovers both the camera parameters and a (sparse) scene structure by minimizing an unsupervised reprojection loss. Our network architecture is designed to respect the structure of the problem: the sought output is equivariant to permutations of both cameras and scene points. Notably, our method does not require initialization of camera parameters or 3D point locations. We test our architecture in two setups: (1) single scene reconstruction and (2) learning from multiple scenes. Our experiments, conducted on a variety of datasets in both internally calibrated and uncalibrated settings, indicate that our method accurately recovers pose and structure, on par with classical state of the art methods. Additionally, we show that a pre-trained network can be used to reconstruct novel scenes using inexpensive fine-tuning with no loss of accuracy.
LIFE: Lighting Invariant Flow Estimation
We tackle the problem of estimating flow between two images with large lighting variations. Recent learning-based flow estimation frameworks have shown remarkable performance on image pairs with small displacement and constant illuminations, but cannot work well on cases with large viewpoint change and lighting variations because of the lack of pixel-wise flow annotations for such cases. We observe that via the Structure-from-Motion (SfM) techniques, one can easily estimate relative camera poses between image pairs with large viewpoint change and lighting variations. We propose a novel weakly supervised framework LIFE to train a neural network for estimating accurate lighting-invariant flows between image pairs. Sparse correspondences are conventionally established via feature matching with descriptors encoding local image contents. However, local image contents are inevitably ambiguous and error-prone during the cross-image feature matching process, which hinders downstream tasks. We propose to guide feature matching with the flows predicted by LIFE, which addresses the ambiguous matching by utilizing abundant context information in the image pairs. We show that LIFE outperforms previous flow learning frameworks by large margins in challenging scenarios, consistently improves feature matching, and benefits downstream tasks.
Lidar-Monocular Surface Reconstruction Using Line Segments
Structure from Motion (SfM) often fails to estimate accurate poses in environments that lack suitable visual features. In such cases, the quality of the final 3D mesh, which is contingent on the accuracy of those estimates, is reduced. One way to overcome this problem is to combine data from a monocular camera with that of a LIDAR. This allows fine details and texture to be captured while still accurately representing featureless subjects. However, fusing these two sensor modalities is challenging due to their fundamentally different characteristics. Rather than directly fusing image features and LIDAR points, we propose to leverage common geometric features that are detected in both the LIDAR scans and image data, allowing data from the two sensors to be processed in a higher-level space. In particular, we propose to find correspondences between 3D lines extracted from LIDAR scans and 2D lines detected in images before performing a bundle adjustment to refine poses. We also exploit the detected and optimized line segments to improve the quality of the final mesh. We test our approach on the recently published dataset, Newer College Dataset. We compare the accuracy and the completeness of the 3D mesh to a ground truth obtained with a survey-grade 3D scanner. We show that our method delivers results that are comparable to a state-of-the-art LIDAR survey while not requiring highly accurate ground truth pose estimates.
Deep Two-View Structure-from-Motion Revisited
Two-view structure-from-motion (SfM) is the cornerstone of 3D reconstruction and visual SLAM. Existing deep learning-based approaches formulate the problem by either recovering absolute pose scales from two consecutive frames or predicting a depth map from a single image, both of which are ill-posed problems. In contrast, we propose to revisit the problem of deep two-view SfM by leveraging the well-posedness of the classic pipeline. Our method consists of 1) an optical flow estimation network that predicts dense correspondences between two frames; 2) a normalized pose estimation module that computes relative camera poses from the 2D optical flow correspondences, and 3) a scale-invariant depth estimation network that leverages epipolar geometry to reduce the search space, refine the dense correspondences, and estimate relative depth maps. Extensive experiments show that our method outperforms all state-of-the-art two-view SfM methods by a clear margin on KITTI depth, KITTI VO, MVS, Scenes11, and SUN3D datasets in both relative pose and depth estimation.
Using depth information and colour space variations for improving outdoor robustness for instance segmentation of cabbage
Image-based yield detection in agriculture could raiseharvest efficiency and cultivation performance of farms. Following this goal, this research focuses on improving instance segmentation of field crops under varying environmental conditions. Five data sets of cabbage plants were recorded under varying lighting outdoor conditions. The images were acquired using a commercial mono camera. Additionally, depth information was generated out of the image stream with Structure-from-Motion (SfM). A Mask R-CNN was used to detect and segment the cabbage heads. The influence of depth information and different colour space representations were analysed. The results showed that depth combined with colour information leads to a segmentation accuracy increase of 7.1%. By describing colour information by colour spaces using light and saturation information combined with depth information, additional segmentation improvements of 16.5% could be reached. The CIELAB colour space combined with a depth information layer showed the best results achieving a mean average precision of 75.
PAUL: Procrustean Autoencoder for Unsupervised Lifting
Recent success in casting Non-rigid Structure from Motion (NRSfM) as an unsupervised deep learning problem has raised fundamental questions about what novelty in NRSfM prior could the deep learning offer. In this paper we advocate for a 3D deep auto-encoder framework to be used explicitly as the NRSfM prior. The framework is unique as: (i) it learns the 3D auto-encoder weights solely from 2D projected measurements, and (ii) it is Procrustean in that it jointly resolves the unknown rigid pose for each shape instance. We refer to this architecture as a Procustean Autoencoder for Unsupervised Lifting (PAUL), and demonstrate state-of-the-art performance across a number of benchmarks in comparison to recent innovations such as Deep NRSfM and C3PDO.
Refractive Light-Field Features for Curved Transparent Objects in Structure from Motion
Curved refractive objects are common in the human environment, and have a complex visual appearance that can cause robotic vision algorithms to fail. Light-field cameras allow us to address this challenge by capturing the view-dependent appearance of such objects in a single exposure. We propose a novel image feature for light fields that detects and describes the patterns of light refracted through curved transparent objects. We derive characteristic points based on these features allowing them to be used in place of conventional 2D features. Using our features, we demonstrate improved structure-from-motion performance in challenging scenes containing refractive objects, including quantitative evaluations that show improved camera pose estimates and 3D reconstructions. Additionally, our methods converge 15-35% more frequently than the state-of-the-art. Our method is a critical step towards allowing robots to operate around refractive objects, with applications in manufacturing, quality assurance, pick-and-place, and domestic robots working with acrylic, glass and other transparent materials.
City-scale Scene Change Detection using Point Clouds
We propose a method for detecting structural changes in a city using images captured from vehicular mounted cameras over traversals at two different times. We first generate 3D point clouds for each traversal from the images and approximate GNSS/INS readings using Structure-from-Motion (SfM). A direct comparison of the two point clouds for change detection is not ideal due to inaccurate geo-location information and possible drifts in the SfM. To circumvent this problem, we propose a deep learning-based non-rigid registration on the point clouds which allows us to compare the point clouds for structural change detection in the scene. Furthermore, we introduce a dual thresholding check and post-processing step to enhance the robustness of our method. We collect two datasets for the evaluation of our approach. Experiments show that our method is able to detect scene changes effectively, even in the presence of viewpoint and illumination differences.
A Framework for 3D Tracking of Frontal Dynamic Objects in Autonomous Cars
Both recognition and 3D tracking of frontal dynamic objects are crucial problems in an autonomous vehicle, while depth estimation as an essential issue becomes a challenging problem using a monocular camera. Since both camera and objects are moving, the issue can be formed as a structure from motion (SFM) problem. In this paper, to elicit features from an image, the YOLOv3 approach is utilized beside an OpenCV tracker. Subsequently, to obtain the lateral and longitudinal distances, a nonlinear SFM model is considered alongside a state-dependent Riccati equation (SDRE) filter and a newly developed observation model. Additionally, a switching method in the form of switching estimation error covariance is proposed to enhance the robust performance of the SDRE filter. The stability analysis of the presented filter is conducted on a class of discrete nonlinear systems. Furthermore, the ultimate bound of estimation error caused by model uncertainties is analytically obtained to investigate the switching significance. Simulations are reported to validate the performance of the switched SDRE filter. Finally, real-time experiments are performed through a multi-thread framework implemented on a Jetson TX2 board, while radar data is used for the evaluation.
Generic Merging of Structure from Motion Maps with a Low Memory Footprint
With the development of cheap image sensors, the amount of available image data have increased enormously, and the possibility of using crowdsourced collection methods has emerged. This calls for development of ways to handle all these data. In this paper, we present new tools that will enable efficient, flexible and robust map merging. Assuming that separate optimisations have been performed for the individual maps, we show how only relevant data can be stored in a low memory footprint representation. We use these representations to perform map merging so that the algorithm is invariant to the merging order and independent of the choice of coordinate system. The result is a robust algorithm that can be applied to several maps simultaneously. The result of a merge can also be represented with the same type of low-memory footprint format, which enables further merging and updating of the map in a hierarchical way. Furthermore, the method can perform loop closing and also detect changes in the scene between the capture of the different image sequences. Using both simulated and real data - from both a hand held mobile phone and from a drone - we verify the performance of the proposed method.
Monocular Depth Estimation through Virtual-world Supervision and Real-world SfM Self-Supervision
Depth information is essential for on-board perception in autonomous driving and driver assistance. Monocular depth estimation (MDE) is very appealing since it allows for appearance and depth being on direct pixelwise correspondence without further calibration. Best MDE models are based on Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) trained in a supervised manner, i.e., assuming pixelwise ground truth (GT). Usually, this GT is acquired at training time through a calibrated multi-modal suite of sensors. However, also using only a monocular system at training time is cheaper and more scalable. This is possible by relying on structure-from-motion (SfM) principles to generate self-supervision. Nevertheless, problems of camouflaged objects, visibility changes, static-camera intervals, textureless areas, and scale ambiguity, diminish the usefulness of such self-supervision. In this paper, we perform monocular depth estimation by virtual-world supervision (MonoDEVS) and real-world SfM self-supervision. We compensate the SfM self-supervision limitations by leveraging virtual-world images with accurate semantic and depth supervision and addressing the virtual-to-real domain gap. Our MonoDEVSNet outperforms previous MDE CNNs trained on monocular and even stereo sequences.
Calibrated and Partially Calibrated Semi-Generalized Homographies
In this paper, we propose the first minimal solutions for estimating the semi-generalized homography given a perspective and a generalized camera. The proposed solvers use five 2D-2D image point correspondences induced by a scene plane. One of them assumes the perspective camera to be fully calibrated, while the other solver estimates the unknown focal length together with the absolute pose parameters. This setup is particularly important in structure-from-motion and image-based localization pipelines, where a new camera is localized in each step with respect to a set of known cameras and 2D-3D correspondences might not be available. As a consequence of a clever parametrization and the elimination ideal method, our approach only needs to solve a univariate polynomial of degree five or three. The proposed solvers are stable and efficient as demonstrated by a number of synthetic and real-world experiments.
Structure-From-Motion and RGBD Depth Fusion
This article describes a technique to augment a typical RGBD sensor by integrating depth estimates obtained via Structure-from-Motion (SfM) with sensor depth measurements. Limitations in the RGBD depth sensing technology prevent capturing depth measurements in four important contexts: (1) distant surfaces (>5m), (2) dark surfaces, (3) brightly lit indoor scenes and (4) sunlit outdoor scenes. SfM technology computes depth via multi-view reconstruction from the RGB image sequence alone. As such, SfM depth estimates do not suffer the same limitations and may be computed in all four of the previously listed circumstances. This work describes a novel fusion of RGBD depth data and SfM-estimated depths to generate an improved depth stream that may be processed by one of many important downstream applications such as robotic localization and mapping, as well as object recognition and tracking.
How Privacy-Preserving are Line Clouds? Recovering Scene Details from 3D Lines
Visual localization is the problem of estimating the camera pose of a given image with respect to a known scene. Visual localization algorithms are a fundamental building block in advanced computer vision applications, including Mixed and Virtual Reality systems. Many algorithms used in practice represent the scene through a Structure-from-Motion (SfM) point cloud and use 2D-3D matches between a query image and the 3D points for camera pose estimation. As recently shown, image details can be accurately recovered from SfM point clouds by translating renderings of the sparse point clouds to images. To address the resulting potential privacy risks for user-generated content, it was recently proposed to lift point clouds to line clouds by replacing 3D points by randomly oriented 3D lines passing through these points. The resulting representation is unintelligible to humans and effectively prevents point cloud-to-image translation. This paper shows that a significant amount of information about the 3D scene geometry is preserved in these line clouds, allowing us to (approximately) recover the 3D point positions and thus to (approximately) recover image content. Our approach is based on the observation that the closest points between lines can yield a good approximation to the original 3D points. Code is available at https://github.com/kunalchelani/Line2Point.
Towards Continual, Online, Self-Supervised Depth
Although depth extraction with passive sensors has seen remarkable improvement with deep learning, these approaches may fail to obtain correct depth if they are exposed to environments not observed during training. Online adaptation, where the neural network trains while deployed, with self-supervised learning provides a convenient solution as the network can learn from the scene where it is deployed without external supervision. However, online adaptation causes a neural network to forget the past. Thus, past training is wasted and the network is not able to provide good results if it observes past scenes. This work deals with practical online-adaptation where the input is online and temporally-correlated, and training is completely self-supervised. Regularization and replay-based methods without task boundaries are proposed to avoid catastrophic forgetting while adapting to online data. Effort has been made to make the proposed approach suitable for practical use. We apply our method to both structure-from-motion and stereo depth estimation. We evaluate our method on diverse public datasets that include outdoor, indoor and synthetic scenes. Qualitative and quantitative results with both structure-from-motion and stereo show superior forgetting as well as adaptation performance compared to recent methods. Furthermore, the proposed method incurs negligible overhead compared to fine-tuning for online adaptation, proving to be an adequate choice in terms of plasticity, stability and applicability. The proposed approach is more inline with the artificial general intelligence paradigm as the neural network learns continually with no supervision. Source code is available at https://github.com/umarKarim/cou_sfm and https://github.com/umarKarim/cou_stereo.
Escaping Poor Local Minima in Large Scale Robust Estimation
Robust parameter estimation is a crucial task in several 3D computer vision pipelines such as Structure from Motion (SfM). State-of-the-art algorithms for robust estimation, however, still suffer from difficulties in converging to satisfactory solutions due to the presence of many poor local minima or flat regions in the optimization landscapes. In this paper, we introduce two novel approaches for robust parameter estimation. The first algorithm utilizes the Filter Method (FM), which is a framework for constrained optimization allowing great flexibility in algorithmic choices, to derive an adaptive kernel scaling strategy that enjoys a strong ability to escape poor minima and achieves fast convergence rates. Our second algorithm combines a generalized Majorization Minimization (GeMM) framework with the half-quadratic lifting formulation to obtain a simple yet efficient solver for robust estimation. We empirically show that both proposed approaches show encouraging capability on avoiding poor local minima and achieve competitive results compared to existing state-of-the art robust fitting algorithms.
On the Robustness of Multi-View Rotation Averaging
Rotation averaging is a synchronization process on single or multiple rotation groups, and is a fundamental problem in many computer vision tasks such as multi-view structure from motion (SfM). Specifically, rotation averaging involves the recovery of an underlying pose-graph consistency from pairwise relative camera poses. Specifically, given pairwise motion in rotation groups, especially 3-dimensional rotation groups (\eg, $\mathbb{SO}(3)$), one is interested in recovering the original signal of multiple rotations with respect to a fixed frame. In this paper, we propose a robust framework to solve multiple rotation averaging problem, especially in the cases that a significant amount of noisy measurements are present. By introducing the $\epsilon$-cycle consistency term into the solver, we enable the robust initialization scheme to be implemented into the IRLS solver. Instead of conducting the costly edge removal, we implicitly constrain the negative effect of erroneous measurements by weight reducing, such that IRLS failures caused by poor initialization can be effectively avoided. Experiment results demonstrate that our proposed approach outperforms state of the arts on various benchmarks.
3D Surface Reconstruction From Multi-Date Satellite Images
The reconstruction of accurate three-dimensional environment models is one of the most fundamental goals in the field of photogrammetry. Since satellite images provide suitable properties for obtaining large-scale environment reconstructions, there exist a variety of Stereo Matching based methods to reconstruct point clouds for satellite image pairs. Recently, the first Structure from Motion (SfM) based approach has been proposed, which allows to reconstruct point clouds from multiple satellite images. In this work, we propose an extension of this SfM based pipeline that allows us to reconstruct not only point clouds but watertight meshes including texture information. We provide a detailed description of several steps that are mandatory to exploit state-of-the-art mesh reconstruction algorithms in the context of satellite imagery. This includes a decomposition of finite projective camera calibration matrices, a skew correction of corresponding depth maps and input images as well as the recovery of real-world depth maps from reparameterized depth values. The paper presents an extensive quantitative evaluation on multi-date satellite images demonstrating that the proposed pipeline combined with current meshing algorithms outperforms state-of-the-art point cloud reconstruction algorithms in terms of completeness and median error. We make the source code of our pipeline publicly available.
VIO-Aided Structure from Motion Under Challenging Environments
In this paper, we present a robust and efficient Structure from Motion pipeline for accurate 3D reconstruction under challenging environments by leveraging the camera pose information from a visual-inertial odometry. Specifically, we propose a geometric verification method to filter out mismatches by considering the prior geometric configuration of candidate image pairs. Furthermore, we introduce an efficient and scalable reconstruction approach that relies on batched image registration and robust bundle adjustment, both leveraging the reliable local odometry estimation. Extensive experimental results show that our pipeline performs better than the state-of-the-art SfM approaches in terms of reconstruction accuracy and robustness for challenging sequential image collections.
Hybrid Rotation Averaging: A Fast and Robust Rotation Averaging Approach
We address rotation averaging (RA) and its application to real-world 3D reconstruction. Local optimisation based approaches are the de facto choice, though they only guarantee a local optimum. Global optimisers ensure global optimality in low noise conditions, but they are inefficient and may easily deviate under the influence of outliers or elevated noise levels. We push the envelope of rotation averaging by leveraging the advantages of a global RA method and a local RA method. Combined with a fast view graph filtering as preprocessing, the proposed hybrid approach is robust to outliers. We further apply the proposed hybrid rotation averaging approach to incremental Structure from Motion (SfM), the accuracy and robustness of SfM are both improved by adding the resulting global rotations as regularisers to bundle adjustment. Overall, we demonstrate high practicality of the proposed method as bad camera poses are effectively corrected and drift is reduced.
An Adaptive Rank Continuation Algorithm for General Weighted Low-rank Recovery
This paper is devoted to proposing a general weighted low-rank recovery model and designing a fast SVD-free computational scheme to solve it. First, our generic weighted low-rank recovery model unifies several existing approaches in the literature.~Moreover, our model readily extends to the non-convex setting. Algorithm-wise, most first-order proximal algorithms in the literature for low-rank recoveries require computing singular value decomposition (SVD). As SVD does not scale appropriately with the dimension of the matrices, these algorithms become slower when the problem size becomes larger. By incorporating the variational formulation of the nuclear norm into the sub-problem of proximal gradient descent, we avoid computing SVD, which results in significant speed-up. Moreover, our algorithm preserves the rank identification property of nuclear norm [33] which further allows us to design a rank continuation scheme that asymptotically achieves the minimal iteration complexity. Numerical experiments on both toy examples and real-world problems, including structure from motion (SfM) and photometric stereo, background estimation, and matrix completion, demonstrate the superiority of our proposed algorithm.
Towards an Automatic System for Extracting Planar Orientations from Software Generated Point Clouds
In geology, a key activity is the characterisation of geological structures (surface formation topology and rock units) using Planar Orientation measurements such as Strike, Dip and Dip Direction. In general these measurements are collected manually using basic equipment; usually a compass/clinometer and a backboard, recorded on a map by hand. Various computing techniques and technologies, such as Lidar, have been utilised in order to automate this process and update the collection paradigm for these types of measurements. Techniques such as Structure from Motion (SfM) reconstruct of scenes and objects by generating a point cloud from input images, with detailed reconstruction possible on the decimetre scale. SfM-type techniques provide advantages in areas of cost and usability in more varied environmental conditions, while sacrificing the extreme levels of data fidelity. Here is presented a methodology of data acquisition and a Machine Learning-based software system: GeoStructure, developed to automate the measurement of orientation measurements. Rather than deriving measurements using a method applied to the input images, such as the Hough Transform, this method takes measurements directly from the reconstructed point cloud surfaces. Point cloud noise is mitigated using a Mahalanobis distance implementation. Significant structure is characterised using a k-nearest neighbour region growing algorithm, and final surface orientations are quantified using the plane, and normal direction cosines.
Boosting Monocular Depth Estimation with Lightweight 3D Point Fusion
In this paper, we propose enhancing monocular depth estimation by adding 3D points as depth guidance. Unlike existing depth completion methods, our approach performs well on extremely sparse and unevenly distributed point clouds, which makes it agnostic to the source of the 3D points. We achieve this by introducing a novel multi-scale 3D point fusion network that is both lightweight and efficient. We demonstrate its versatility on two different depth estimation problems where the 3D points have been acquired with conventional structure-from-motion and LiDAR. In both cases, our network performs on par with state-of-the-art depth completion methods and achieves significantly higher accuracy when only a small number of points is used while being more compact in terms of the number of parameters. We show that our method outperforms some contemporary deep learning based multi-view stereo and structure-from-motion methods both in accuracy and in compactness.
Relightable 3D Head Portraits from a Smartphone Video
In this work, a system for creating a relightable 3D portrait of a human head is presented. Our neural pipeline operates on a sequence of frames captured by a smartphone camera with the flash blinking (flash-no flash sequence). A coarse point cloud reconstructed via structure-from-motion software and multi-view denoising is then used as a geometric proxy. Afterwards, a deep rendering network is trained to regress dense albedo, normals, and environmental lighting maps for arbitrary new viewpoints. Effectively, the proxy geometry and the rendering network constitute a relightable 3D portrait model, that can be synthesized from an arbitrary viewpoint and under arbitrary lighting, e.g. directional light, point light, or an environment map. The model is fitted to the sequence of frames with human face-specific priors that enforce the plausibility of albedo-lighting decomposition and operates at the interactive frame rate. We evaluate the performance of the method under varying lighting conditions and at the extrapolated viewpoints and compare with existing relighting methods.
A Photogrammetry-based Framework to Facilitate Image-based Modeling and Automatic Camera Tracking
We propose a framework that extends Blender to exploit Structure from Motion (SfM) and Multi-View Stereo (MVS) techniques for image-based modeling tasks such as sculpting or camera and motion tracking. Applying SfM allows us to determine camera motions without manually defining feature tracks or calibrating the cameras used to capture the image data. With MVS we are able to automatically compute dense scene models, which is not feasible with the built-in tools of Blender. Currently, our framework supports several state-of-the-art SfM and MVS pipelines. The modular system design enables us to integrate further approaches without additional effort. The framework is publicly available as an open source software package.
Efficient Initial Pose-graph Generation for Global SfM
We propose ways to speed up the initial pose-graph generation for global Structure-from-Motion algorithms. To avoid forming tentative point correspondences by FLANN and geometric verification by RANSAC, which are the most time-consuming steps of the pose-graph creation, we propose two new methods - built on the fact that image pairs usually are matched consecutively. Thus, candidate relative poses can be recovered from paths in the partly-built pose-graph. We propose a heuristic for the A* traversal, considering global similarity of images and the quality of the pose-graph edges. Given a relative pose from a path, descriptor-based feature matching is made "light-weight" by exploiting the known epipolar geometry. To speed up PROSAC-based sampling when RANSAC is applied, we propose a third method to order the correspondences by their inlier probabilities from previous estimations. The algorithms are tested on 402130 image pairs from the 1DSfM dataset and they speed up the feature matching 17 times and pose estimation 5 times.
A Closed-Form Solution to Local Non-Rigid Structure-from-Motion
A recent trend in Non-Rigid Structure-from-Motion (NRSfM) is to express local, differential constraints between pairs of images, from which the surface normal at any point can be obtained by solving a system of polynomial equations. The systems of equations derived in previous work, however, are of high degree, having up to five real solutions, thus requiring a computationally expensive strategy to select a unique solution. Furthermore, they suffer from degeneracies that make the resulting estimates unreliable, without any mechanism to identify this situation.   In this paper, we show that, under widely applicable assumptions, we can derive a new system of equation in terms of the surface normals whose two solutions can be obtained in closed-form and can easily be disambiguated locally. Our formalism further allows us to assess how reliable the estimated local normals are and, hence, to discard them if they are not. Our experiments show that our reconstructions, obtained from two or more views, are significantly more accurate than those of state-of-the-art methods, while also being faster.
RidgeSfM: Structure from Motion via Robust Pairwise Matching Under Depth Uncertainty
We consider the problem of simultaneously estimating a dense depth map and camera pose for a large set of images of an indoor scene. While classical SfM pipelines rely on a two-step approach where cameras are first estimated using a bundle adjustment in order to ground the ensuing multi-view stereo stage, both our poses and dense reconstructions are a direct output of an altered bundle adjuster. To this end, we parametrize each depth map with a linear combination of a limited number of basis "depth-planes" predicted in a monocular fashion by a deep net. Using a set of high-quality sparse keypoint matches, we optimize over the per-frame linear combinations of depth planes and camera poses to form a geometrically consistent cloud of keypoints. Although our bundle adjustment only considers sparse keypoints, the inferred linear coefficients of the basis planes immediately give us dense depth maps. RidgeSfM is able to collectively align hundreds of frames, which is its main advantage over recent memory-heavy deep alternatives that can align at most 10 frames. Quantitative comparisons reveal performance superior to a state-of-the-art large-scale SfM pipeline.
Dehazing Cost Volume for Deep Multi-view Stereo in Scattering Media with Airlight and Scattering Coefficient Estimation
We propose a learning-based multi-view stereo (MVS) method in scattering media, such as fog or smoke, with a novel cost volume, called the dehazing cost volume. Images captured in scattering media are degraded due to light scattering and attenuation caused by suspended particles. This degradation depends on scene depth; thus, it is difficult for traditional MVS methods to evaluate photometric consistency because the depth is unknown before three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction. The dehazing cost volume can solve this chicken-and-egg problem of depth estimation and image restoration by computing the scattering effect using swept planes in the cost volume. We also propose a method of estimating scattering parameters, such as airlight, and a scattering coefficient, which are required for our dehazing cost volume. The output depth of a network with our dehazing cost volume can be regarded as a function of these parameters; thus, they are geometrically optimized with a sparse 3D point cloud obtained at a structure-from-motion step. Experimental results on synthesized hazy images indicate the effectiveness of our dehazing cost volume against the ordinary cost volume regarding scattering media. We also demonstrated the applicability of our dehazing cost volume to real foggy scenes.
Stable View Synthesis
We present Stable View Synthesis (SVS). Given a set of source images depicting a scene from freely distributed viewpoints, SVS synthesizes new views of the scene. The method operates on a geometric scaffold computed via structure-from-motion and multi-view stereo. Each point on this 3D scaffold is associated with view rays and corresponding feature vectors that encode the appearance of this point in the input images. The core of SVS is view-dependent on-surface feature aggregation, in which directional feature vectors at each 3D point are processed to produce a new feature vector for a ray that maps this point into the new target view. The target view is then rendered by a convolutional network from a tensor of features synthesized in this way for all pixels. The method is composed of differentiable modules and is trained end-to-end. It supports spatially-varying view-dependent importance weighting and feature transformation of source images at each point; spatial and temporal stability due to the smooth dependence of on-surface feature aggregation on the target view; and synthesis of view-dependent effects such as specular reflection. Experimental results demonstrate that SVS outperforms state-of-the-art view synthesis methods both quantitatively and qualitatively on three diverse real-world datasets, achieving unprecedented levels of realism in free-viewpoint video of challenging large-scale scenes. Code is available at https://github.com/intel-isl/StableViewSynthesis
Towards Keypoint Guided Self-Supervised Depth Estimation
This paper proposes to use keypoints as a self-supervision clue for learning depth map estimation from a collection of input images. As ground truth depth from real images is difficult to obtain, there are many unsupervised and self-supervised approaches to depth estimation that have been proposed. Most of these unsupervised approaches use depth map and ego-motion estimations to reproject the pixels from the current image into the adjacent image from the image collection. Depth and ego-motion estimations are evaluated based on pixel intensity differences between the correspondent original and reprojected pixels. Instead of reprojecting the individual pixels, we propose to first select image keypoints in both images and then reproject and compare the correspondent keypoints of the two images. The keypoints should describe the distinctive image features well. By learning a deep model with and without the keypoint extraction technique, we show that using the keypoints improve the depth estimation learning. We also propose some future directions for keypoint-guided learning of structure-from-motion problems.
Pushing the Envelope of Rotation Averaging for Visual SLAM
As an essential part of structure from motion (SfM) and Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) systems, motion averaging has been extensively studied in the past years and continues to attract surging research attention. While canonical approaches such as bundle adjustment are predominantly inherited in most of state-of-the-art SLAM systems to estimate and update the trajectory in the robot navigation, the practical implementation of bundle adjustment in SLAM systems is intrinsically limited by the high computational complexity, unreliable convergence and strict requirements of ideal initializations. In this paper, we lift these limitations and propose a novel optimization backbone for visual SLAM systems, where we leverage rotation averaging to improve the accuracy, efficiency and robustness of conventional monocular SLAM pipelines. In our approach, we first decouple the rotational and translational parameters in the camera rigid body transformation and convert the high-dimensional non-convex nonlinear problem into tractable linear subproblems in lower dimensions, and show that the subproblems can be solved independently with proper constraints. We apply the scale parameter with $l_1$-norm in the pose-graph optimization to address the rotation averaging robustness against outliers. We further validate the global optimality of our proposed approach, revisit and address the initialization schemes, pure rotational scene handling and outlier treatments. We demonstrate that our approach can exhibit up to 10x faster speed with comparable accuracy against the state of the art on public benchmarks.
Automatic joint damage quantification using computer vision and deep learning
Joint raveled or spalled damage (henceforth called joint damage) can affect the safety and long-term performance of concrete pavements. It is important to assess and quantify the joint damage over time to assist in building action plans for maintenance, predicting maintenance costs, and maximize the concrete pavement service life. A framework for the accurate, autonomous, and rapid quantification of joint damage with a low-cost camera is proposed using a computer vision technique with a deep learning (DL) algorithm. The DL model is employed to train 263 images of sawcuts with joint damage. The trained DL model is used for pixel-wise color-masking joint damage in a series of query 2D images, which are used to reconstruct a 3D image using open-source structure from motion algorithm. Another damage quantification algorithm using a color threshold is applied to detect and compute the surface area of the damage in the 3D reconstructed image. The effectiveness of the framework was validated through inspecting joint damage at four transverse contraction joints in Illinois, USA, including three acceptable joints and one unacceptable joint by visual inspection. The results show the framework achieves 76% recall and 10% error.
Robust Isometric Non-Rigid Structure-from-Motion
Non-Rigid Structure-from-Motion (NRSfM) reconstructs a deformable 3D object from the correspondences established between monocular 2D images. Current NRSfM methods lack statistical robustness, which is the ability to cope with correspondence errors.This prevents one to use automatically established correspondences, which are prone to errors, thereby strongly limiting the scope of NRSfM. We propose a three-step automatic pipeline to solve NRSfM robustly by exploiting isometry. Step 1 computes the optical flow from correspondences, step 2 reconstructs each 3D point's normal vector using multiple reference images and integrates them to form surfaces with the best reference and step 3 rejects the 3D points that break isometry in their local neighborhood. Importantly, each step is designed to discard or flag erroneous correspondences. Our contributions include the robustification of optical flow by warp estimation, new fast analytic solutions to local normal reconstruction and their robustification, and a new scale-independent measure of 3D local isometric coherence. Experimental results show that our robust NRSfM method consistently outperforms existing methods on both synthetic and real datasets.
Image-based underwater 3D reconstruction for Cultural Heritage: from image collection to 3D. Critical steps and considerations
Underwater Cultural Heritage (CH) sites are widely spread; from ruins in coastlines up to shipwrecks in deep. The documentation and preservation of this heritage is an obligation of the mankind, dictated also by the international treaties like the Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Her-itage which fosters the use of "non-destructive techniques and survey meth-ods in preference over the recovery of objects". However, submerged CH lacks in protection and monitoring in regards to the land CH and nowadays recording and documenting, for digital preservation as well as dissemination through VR to wide public, is of most importance. At the same time, it is most difficult to document it, due to inherent restrictions posed by the environ-ment. In order to create high detailed textured 3D models, optical sensors and photogrammetric techniques seems to be the best solution. This chapter dis-cusses critical aspects of all phases of image based underwater 3D reconstruc-tion process, from data acquisition and data preparation using colour restora-tion and colour enhancement algorithms to Structure from Motion (SfM) and Multi-View Stereo (MVS) techniques to produce an accurate, precise and complete 3D model for a number of applications.
Image Retrieval for Structure-from-Motion via Graph Convolutional Network
Conventional image retrieval techniques for Structure-from-Motion (SfM) suffer from the limit of effectively recognizing repetitive patterns and cannot guarantee to create just enough match pairs with high precision and high recall. In this paper, we present a novel retrieval method based on Graph Convolutional Network (GCN) to generate accurate pairwise matches without costly redundancy. We formulate image retrieval task as a node binary classification problem in graph data: a node is marked as positive if it shares the scene overlaps with the query image. The key idea is that we find that the local context in feature space around a query image contains rich information about the matchable relation between this image and its neighbors. By constructing a subgraph surrounding the query image as input data, we adopt a learnable GCN to exploit whether nodes in the subgraph have overlapping regions with the query photograph. Experiments demonstrate that our method performs remarkably well on the challenging dataset of highly ambiguous and duplicated scenes. Besides, compared with state-of-the-art matchable retrieval methods, the proposed approach significantly reduces useless attempted matches without sacrificing the accuracy and completeness of reconstruction.
Reducing Drift in Structure From Motion Using Extended Features
Low-frequency long-range errors (drift) are an endemic problem in 3D structure from motion, and can often hamper reasonable reconstructions of the scene. In this paper, we present a method to dramatically reduce scale and positional drift by using extended structural features such as planes and vanishing points. Unlike traditional feature matches, our extended features are able to span non-overlapping input images, and hence provide long-range constraints on the scale and shape of the reconstruction. We add these features as additional constraints to a state-of-the-art global structure from motion algorithm and demonstrate that the added constraints enable the reconstruction of particularly drift-prone sequences such as long, low field-of-view videos without inertial measurements. Additionally, we provide an analysis of the drift-reducing capabilities of these constraints by evaluating on a synthetic dataset. Our structural features are able to significantly reduce drift for scenes that contain long-spanning man-made structures, such as aligned rows of windows or planar building facades.
Near-Optimal Performance Bounds for Orthogonal and Permutation Group Synchronization via Spectral Methods
Group synchronization asks to recover group elements from their pairwise measurements. It has found numerous applications across various scientific disciplines. In this work, we focus on orthogonal and permutation group synchronization which are widely used in computer vision such as object matching and structure from motion. Among many available approaches, the spectral methods have enjoyed great popularity due to their efficiency and convenience. We will study the performance guarantees of the spectral methods in solving these two synchronization problems by investigating how well the computed eigenvectors approximate each group element individually. We establish our theory by applying the recent popular~\emph{leave-one-out} technique and derive a~\emph{block-wise} performance bound for the recovery of each group element via eigenvectors. In particular, for orthogonal group synchronization, we obtain a near-optimal performance bound for the group recovery in presence of additive Gaussian noise. For permutation group synchronization under random corruption, we show that the widely-used two-step procedure (spectral method plus rounding) can recover all the group elements exactly if the SNR (signal-to-noise ratio) is close to the information theoretical limit. Our numerical experiments confirm our theory and indicate a sharp phase transition for the exact group recovery.
Visual Imitation Made Easy
Visual imitation learning provides a framework for learning complex manipulation behaviors by leveraging human demonstrations. However, current interfaces for imitation such as kinesthetic teaching or teleoperation prohibitively restrict our ability to efficiently collect large-scale data in the wild. Obtaining such diverse demonstration data is paramount for the generalization of learned skills to novel scenarios. In this work, we present an alternate interface for imitation that simplifies the data collection process while allowing for easy transfer to robots. We use commercially available reacher-grabber assistive tools both as a data collection device and as the robot's end-effector. To extract action information from these visual demonstrations, we use off-the-shelf Structure from Motion (SfM) techniques in addition to training a finger detection network. We experimentally evaluate on two challenging tasks: non-prehensile pushing and prehensile stacking, with 1000 diverse demonstrations for each task. For both tasks, we use standard behavior cloning to learn executable policies from the previously collected offline demonstrations. To improve learning performance, we employ a variety of data augmentations and provide an extensive analysis of its effects. Finally, we demonstrate the utility of our interface by evaluating on real robotic scenarios with previously unseen objects and achieve a 87% success rate on pushing and a 62% success rate on stacking. Robot videos are available at https://dhiraj100892.github.io/Visual-Imitation-Made-Easy.
Integration of the 3D Environment for UAV Onboard Visual Object Tracking
Single visual object tracking from an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) poses fundamental challenges such as object occlusion, small-scale objects, background clutter, and abrupt camera motion. To tackle these difficulties, we propose to integrate the 3D structure of the observed scene into a detection-by-tracking algorithm. We introduce a pipeline that combines a model-free visual object tracker, a sparse 3D reconstruction, and a state estimator. The 3D reconstruction of the scene is computed with an image-based Structure-from-Motion (SfM) component that enables us to leverage a state estimator in the corresponding 3D scene during tracking. By representing the position of the target in 3D space rather than in image space, we stabilize the tracking during ego-motion and improve the handling of occlusions, background clutter, and small-scale objects. We evaluated our approach on prototypical image sequences, captured from a UAV with low-altitude oblique views. For this purpose, we adapted an existing dataset for visual object tracking and reconstructed the observed scene in 3D. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed approach outperforms methods using plain visual cues as well as approaches leveraging image-space-based state estimations. We believe that our approach can be beneficial for traffic monitoring, video surveillance, and navigation.
Shonan Rotation Averaging: Global Optimality by Surfing $SO(p)^n$
Shonan Rotation Averaging is a fast, simple, and elegant rotation averaging algorithm that is guaranteed to recover globally optimal solutions under mild assumptions on the measurement noise. Our method employs semidefinite relaxation in order to recover provably globally optimal solutions of the rotation averaging problem. In contrast to prior work, we show how to solve large-scale instances of these relaxations using manifold minimization on (only slightly) higher-dimensional rotation manifolds, re-using existing high-performance (but local) structure-from-motion pipelines. Our method thus preserves the speed and scalability of current SFM methods, while recovering globally optimal solutions.
A Novel Indoor Positioning System for unprepared firefighting scenarios
Situational awareness and Indoor location tracking for firefighters is one of the tasks with paramount importance in search and rescue operations. For Indoor Positioning systems (IPS), GPS is not the best possible solution. There are few other techniques like dead reckoning, Wifi and bluetooth based triangulation, Structure from Motion (SFM) based scene reconstruction for Indoor positioning system. However due to high temperatures, the rapidly changing environment of fires, and low parallax in the thermal images, these techniques are not suitable for relaying the necessary information in a fire fighting environment needed to increase situational awareness in real time. In fire fighting environments, thermal imaging cameras are used due to smoke and low visibility hence obtaining relative orientation from the vanishing point estimation is very difficult. The following technique that is the content of this research implements a novel optical flow based video compass for orientation estimation and fused IMU data based activity recognition for IPS. This technique helps first responders to go into unprepared, unknown environments and still maintain situational awareness like the orientation and, position of the victim fire fighters.
Infrastructure-based Multi-Camera Calibration using Radial Projections
Multi-camera systems are an important sensor platform for intelligent systems such as self-driving cars. Pattern-based calibration techniques can be used to calibrate the intrinsics of the cameras individually. However, extrinsic calibration of systems with little to no visual overlap between the cameras is a challenge. Given the camera intrinsics, infrastucture-based calibration techniques are able to estimate the extrinsics using 3D maps pre-built via SLAM or Structure-from-Motion. In this paper, we propose to fully calibrate a multi-camera system from scratch using an infrastructure-based approach. Assuming that the distortion is mainly radial, we introduce a two-stage approach. We first estimate the camera-rig extrinsics up to a single unknown translation component per camera. Next, we solve for both the intrinsic parameters and the missing translation components. Extensive experiments on multiple indoor and outdoor scenes with multiple multi-camera systems show that our calibration method achieves high accuracy and robustness. In particular, our approach is more robust than the naive approach of first estimating intrinsic parameters and pose per camera before refining the extrinsic parameters of the system. The implementation is available at https://github.com/youkely/InfrasCal.
Robust Image Retrieval-based Visual Localization using Kapture
Visual localization tackles the challenge of estimating the camera pose from images by using correspondence analysis between query images and a map. This task is computation and data intensive which poses challenges on thorough evaluation of methods on various datasets. However, in order to further advance in the field, we claim that robust visual localization algorithms should be evaluated on multiple datasets covering a broad domain variety. To facilitate this, we introduce kapture, a new, flexible, unified data format and toolbox for visual localization and structure-from-motion (SFM). It enables easy usage of different datasets as well as efficient and reusable data processing. To demonstrate this, we present a versatile pipeline for visual localization that facilitates the use of different local and global features, 3D data (e.g. depth maps), non-vision sensor data (e.g. IMU, GPS, WiFi), and various processing algorithms. Using multiple configurations of the pipeline, we show the great versatility of kapture in our experiments. Furthermore, we evaluate our methods on eight public datasets where they rank top on all and first on many of them. To foster future research, we release code, models, and all datasets used in this paper in the kapture format open source under a permissive BSD license. github.com/naver/kapture, github.com/naver/kapture-localization
Procrustean Regression Networks: Learning 3D Structure of Non-Rigid Objects from 2D Annotations
We propose a novel framework for training neural networks which is capable of learning 3D information of non-rigid objects when only 2D annotations are available as ground truths. Recently, there have been some approaches that incorporate the problem setting of non-rigid structure-from-motion (NRSfM) into deep learning to learn 3D structure reconstruction. The most important difficulty of NRSfM is to estimate both the rotation and deformation at the same time, and previous works handle this by regressing both of them. In this paper, we resolve this difficulty by proposing a loss function wherein the suitable rotation is automatically determined. Trained with the cost function consisting of the reprojection error and the low-rank term of aligned shapes, the network learns the 3D structures of such objects as human skeletons and faces during the training, whereas the testing is done in a single-frame basis. The proposed method can handle inputs with missing entries and experimental results validate that the proposed framework shows superior reconstruction performance to the state-of-the-art method on the Human 3.6M, 300-VW, and SURREAL datasets, even though the underlying network structure is very simple.
Relative Pose from Deep Learned Depth and a Single Affine Correspondence
We propose a new approach for combining deep-learned non-metric monocular depth with affine correspondences (ACs) to estimate the relative pose of two calibrated cameras from a single correspondence. Considering the depth information and affine features, two new constraints on the camera pose are derived. The proposed solver is usable within 1-point RANSAC approaches. Thus, the processing time of the robust estimation is linear in the number of correspondences and, therefore, orders of magnitude faster than by using traditional approaches. The proposed 1AC+D solver is tested both on synthetic data and on 110395 publicly available real image pairs where we used an off-the-shelf monocular depth network to provide up-to-scale depth per pixel. The proposed 1AC+D leads to similar accuracy as traditional approaches while being significantly faster. When solving large-scale problems, e.g., pose-graph initialization for Structure-from-Motion (SfM) pipelines, the overhead of obtaining ACs and monocular depth is negligible compared to the speed-up gained in the pairwise geometric verification, i.e., relative pose estimation. This is demonstrated on scenes from the 1DSfM dataset using a state-of-the-art global SfM algorithm. Source code: https://github.com/eivan/one-ac-pose
Polarimetric Multi-View Inverse Rendering
A polarization camera has great potential for 3D reconstruction since the angle of polarization (AoP) of reflected light is related to an object's surface normal. In this paper, we propose a novel 3D reconstruction method called Polarimetric Multi-View Inverse Rendering (Polarimetric MVIR) that effectively exploits geometric, photometric, and polarimetric cues extracted from input multi-view color polarization images. We first estimate camera poses and an initial 3D model by geometric reconstruction with a standard structure-from-motion and multi-view stereo pipeline. We then refine the initial model by optimizing photometric and polarimetric rendering errors using multi-view RGB and AoP images, where we propose a novel polarimetric rendering cost function that enables us to effectively constrain each estimated surface vertex's normal while considering four possible ambiguous azimuth angles revealed from the AoP measurement. Experimental results using both synthetic and real data demonstrate that our Polarimetric MVIR can reconstruct a detailed 3D shape without assuming a specific polarized reflection depending on the material.
Partially Supervised Multi-Task Network for Single-View Dietary Assessment
Food volume estimation is an essential step in the pipeline of dietary assessment and demands the precise depth estimation of the food surface and table plane. Existing methods based on computer vision require either multi-image input or additional depth maps, reducing convenience of implementation and practical significance. Despite the recent advances in unsupervised depth estimation from a single image, the achieved performance in the case of large texture-less areas needs to be improved. In this paper, we propose a network architecture that jointly performs geometric understanding (i.e., depth prediction and 3D plane estimation) and semantic prediction on a single food image, enabling a robust and accurate food volume estimation regardless of the texture characteristics of the target plane. For the training of the network, only monocular videos with semantic ground truth are required, while the depth map and 3D plane ground truth are no longer needed. Experimental results on two separate food image databases demonstrate that our method performs robustly on texture-less scenarios and is superior to unsupervised networks and structure from motion based approaches, while it achieves comparable performance to fully-supervised methods.
Self-Calibration Supported Robust Projective Structure-from-Motion
Typical Structure-from-Motion (SfM) pipelines rely on finding correspondences across images, recovering the projective structure of the observed scene and upgrading it to a metric frame using camera self-calibration constraints. Solving each problem is mainly carried out independently from the others. For instance, camera self-calibration generally assumes correct matches and a good projective reconstruction have been obtained. In this paper, we propose a unified SfM method, in which the matching process is supported by self-calibration constraints. We use the idea that good matches should yield a valid calibration. In this process, we make use of the Dual Image of Absolute Quadric projection equations within a multiview correspondence framework, in order to obtain robust matching from a set of putative correspondences. The matching process classifies points as inliers or outliers, which is learned in an unsupervised manner using a deep neural network. Together with theoretical reasoning why the self-calibration constraints are necessary, we show experimental results demonstrating robust multiview matching and accurate camera calibration by exploiting these constraints.
Multigrid for Bundle Adjustment
Bundle adjustment is an important global optimization step in many structure from motion pipelines. Performance is dependent on the speed of the linear solver used to compute steps towards the optimum. For large problems, the current state of the art scales superlinearly with the number of cameras in the problem. We investigate the conditioning of global bundle adjustment problems as the number of images increases in different regimes and fundamental consequences in terms of superlinear scaling of the current state of the art methods. We present an unsmoothed aggregation multigrid preconditioner that accurately represents the global modes that underlie poor scaling of existing methods and demonstrate solves of up to 13 times faster than the state of the art on large, challenging problem sets.
Learning non-rigid surface reconstruction from spatio-temporal image patches
We present a method to reconstruct a dense spatio-temporal depth map of a non-rigidly deformable object directly from a video sequence. The estimation of depth is performed locally on spatio-temporal patches of the video, and then the full depth video of the entire shape is recovered by combining them together. Since the geometric complexity of a local spatio-temporal patch of a deforming non-rigid object is often simple enough to be faithfully represented with a parametric model, we artificially generate a database of small deforming rectangular meshes rendered with different material properties and light conditions, along with their corresponding depth videos, and use such data to train a convolutional neural network. We tested our method on both synthetic and Kinect data and experimentally observed that the reconstruction error is significantly lower than the one obtained using other approaches like conventional non-rigid structure from motion.
3D Pipe Network Reconstruction Based on Structure from Motion with Incremental Conic Shape Detection and Cylindrical Constraint
Pipe inspection is a critical task for many industries and infrastructure of a city. The 3D information of a pipe can be used for revealing the deformation of the pipe surface and position of the camera during the inspection. In this paper, we propose a 3D pipe reconstruction system using sequential images captured by a monocular endoscopic camera. Our work extends a state-of-the-art incremental Structure-from-Motion (SfM) method to incorporate prior constraints given by the target shape into bundle adjustment (BA). Using this constraint, we can minimize the scale-drift that is the general problem in SfM. Moreover, our method can reconstruct a pipe network composed of multiple parts including straight pipes, elbows, and tees. In the experiments, we show that the proposed system enables more accurate and robust pipe mapping from a monocular camera in comparison with existing state-of-the-art methods.
Dense Non-Rigid Structure from Motion: A Manifold Viewpoint
Non-Rigid Structure-from-Motion (NRSfM) problem aims to recover 3D geometry of a deforming object from its 2D feature correspondences across multiple frames. Classical approaches to this problem assume a small number of feature points and, ignore the local non-linearities of the shape deformation, and therefore, struggles to reliably model non-linear deformations. Furthermore, available dense NRSfM algorithms are often hurdled by scalability, computations, noisy measurements and, restricted to model just global deformation. In this paper, we propose algorithms that can overcome these limitations with the previous methods and, at the same time, can recover a reliable dense 3D structure of a non-rigid object with higher accuracy. Assuming that a deforming shape is composed of a union of local linear subspace and, span a global low-rank space over multiple frames enables us to efficiently model complex non-rigid deformations. To that end, each local linear subspace is represented using Grassmannians and, the global 3D shape across multiple frames is represented using a low-rank representation. We show that our approach significantly improves accuracy, scalability, and robustness against noise. Also, our representation naturally allows for simultaneous reconstruction and clustering framework which in general is observed to be more suitable for NRSfM problems. Our method currently achieves leading performance on the standard benchmark datasets.
Revisiting visual-inertial structure from motion for odometry and SLAM initialization
In this paper, an efficient closed-form solution for the state initialization in visual-inertial odometry (VIO) and simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) is presented. Unlike the state-of-the-art, we do not derive linear equations from triangulating pairs of point observations. Instead, we build on a direct triangulation of the unknown $3D$ point paired with each of its observations. We show and validate the high impact of such a simple difference. The resulting linear system has a simpler structure and the solution through analytic elimination only requires solving a $6\times 6$ linear system (or $9 \times 9$ when accelerometer bias is included). In addition, all the observations of every scene point are jointly related, thereby leading to a less biased and more robust solution. The proposed formulation attains up to $50$ percent decreased velocity and point reconstruction error compared to the standard closed-form solver, while it is $4\times$ faster for a $7$-frame set. Apart from the inherent efficiency, fewer iterations are needed by any further non-linear refinement thanks to better parameter initialization. In this context, we provide the analytic Jacobians for a non-linear optimizer that optionally refines the initial parameters. The superior performance of the proposed solver is established by quantitative comparisons with the state-of-the-art solver.
SEKD: Self-Evolving Keypoint Detection and Description
Researchers have attempted utilizing deep neural network (DNN) to learn novel local features from images inspired by its recent successes on a variety of vision tasks. However, existing DNN-based algorithms have not achieved such remarkable progress that could be partly attributed to insufficient utilization of the interactive characters between local feature detector and descriptor. To alleviate these difficulties, we emphasize two desired properties, i.e., repeatability and reliability, to simultaneously summarize the inherent and interactive characters of local feature detector and descriptor. Guided by these properties, a self-supervised framework, namely self-evolving keypoint detection and description (SEKD), is proposed to learn an advanced local feature model from unlabeled natural images. Additionally, to have performance guarantees, novel training strategies have also been dedicatedly designed to minimize the gap between the learned feature and its properties. We benchmark the proposed method on homography estimation, relative pose estimation, and structure-from-motion tasks. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method outperforms popular hand-crafted and DNN-based methods by remarkable margins. Ablation studies also verify the effectiveness of each critical training strategy. We will release our code along with the trained model publicly.
AdaLAM: Revisiting Handcrafted Outlier Detection
Local feature matching is a critical component of many computer vision pipelines, including among others Structure-from-Motion, SLAM, and Visual Localization. However, due to limitations in the descriptors, raw matches are often contaminated by a majority of outliers. As a result, outlier detection is a fundamental problem in computer vision, and a wide range of approaches have been proposed over the last decades. In this paper we revisit handcrafted approaches to outlier filtering. Based on best practices, we propose a hierarchical pipeline for effective outlier detection as well as integrate novel ideas which in sum lead to AdaLAM, an efficient and competitive approach to outlier rejection. AdaLAM is designed to effectively exploit modern parallel hardware, resulting in a very fast, yet very accurate, outlier filter. We validate AdaLAM on multiple large and diverse datasets, and we submit to the Image Matching Challenge (CVPR2020), obtaining competitive results with simple baseline descriptors. We show that AdaLAM is more than competitive to current state of the art, both in terms of efficiency and effectiveness.
Reference Pose Generation for Long-term Visual Localization via Learned Features and View Synthesis
Visual Localization is one of the key enabling technologies for autonomous driving and augmented reality. High quality datasets with accurate 6 Degree-of-Freedom (DoF) reference poses are the foundation for benchmarking and improving existing methods. Traditionally, reference poses have been obtained via Structure-from-Motion (SfM). However, SfM itself relies on local features which are prone to fail when images were taken under different conditions, e.g., day/ night changes. At the same time, manually annotating feature correspondences is not scalable and potentially inaccurate. In this work, we propose a semi-automated approach to generate reference poses based on feature matching between renderings of a 3D model and real images via learned features. Given an initial pose estimate, our approach iteratively refines the pose based on feature matches against a rendering of the model from the current pose estimate. We significantly improve the nighttime reference poses of the popular Aachen Day-Night dataset, showing that state-of-the-art visual localization methods perform better (up to $47\%$) than predicted by the original reference poses. We extend the dataset with new nighttime test images, provide uncertainty estimates for our new reference poses, and introduce a new evaluation criterion. We will make our reference poses and our framework publicly available upon publication.
A Closed-Form Uncertainty Propagation in Non-Rigid Structure from Motion
Semi-Definite Programming (SDP) with low-rank prior has been widely applied in Non-Rigid Structure from Motion (NRSfM). Based on a low-rank constraint, it avoids the inherent ambiguity of basis number selection in conventional base-shape or base-trajectory methods. Despite the efficiency in deformable shape reconstruction, it remains unclear how to assess the uncertainty of the recovered shape from the SDP process. In this paper, we present a statistical inference on the element-wise uncertainty quantification of the estimated deforming 3D shape points in the case of the exact low-rank SDP problem. A closed-form uncertainty quantification method is proposed and tested. Moreover, we extend the exact low-rank uncertainty quantification to the approximate low-rank scenario with a numerical optimal rank selection method, which enables solving practical application in SDP based NRSfM scenario. The proposed method provides an independent module to the SDP method and only requires the statistic information of the input 2D tracked points. Extensive experiments prove that the output 3D points have identical normal distribution to the 2D trackings, the proposed method and quantify the uncertainty accurately, and supports that it has desirable effects on routinely SDP low-rank based NRSfM solver.
Consistent Video Depth Estimation
We present an algorithm for reconstructing dense, geometrically consistent depth for all pixels in a monocular video. We leverage a conventional structure-from-motion reconstruction to establish geometric constraints on pixels in the video. Unlike the ad-hoc priors in classical reconstruction, we use a learning-based prior, i.e., a convolutional neural network trained for single-image depth estimation. At test time, we fine-tune this network to satisfy the geometric constraints of a particular input video, while retaining its ability to synthesize plausible depth details in parts of the video that are less constrained. We show through quantitative validation that our method achieves higher accuracy and a higher degree of geometric consistency than previous monocular reconstruction methods. Visually, our results appear more stable. Our algorithm is able to handle challenging hand-held captured input videos with a moderate degree of dynamic motion. The improved quality of the reconstruction enables several applications, such as scene reconstruction and advanced video-based visual effects.
Stomach 3D Reconstruction Based on Virtual Chromoendoscopic Image Generation
Gastric endoscopy is a standard clinical process that enables medical practitioners to diagnose various lesions inside a patient's stomach. If any lesion is found, it is very important to perceive the location of the lesion relative to the global view of the stomach. Our previous research showed that this could be addressed by reconstructing the whole stomach shape from chromoendoscopic images using a structure-from-motion (SfM) pipeline, in which indigo carmine (IC) blue dye sprayed images were used to increase feature matches for SfM by enhancing stomach surface's textures. However, spraying the IC dye to the whole stomach requires additional time, labor, and cost, which is not desirable for patients and practitioners. In this paper, we propose an alternative way to achieve whole stomach 3D reconstruction without the need of the IC dye by generating virtual IC-sprayed (VIC) images based on image-to-image style translation trained on unpaired real no-IC and IC-sprayed images. We have specifically investigated the effect of input and output color channel selection for generating the VIC images and found that translating no-IC green-channel images to IC-sprayed red-channel images gives the best SfM reconstruction result.
Robust Line Segments Matching via Graph Convolution Networks
Line matching plays an essential role in structure from motion (SFM) and simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM), especially in low-textured and repetitive scenes. In this paper, we present a new method of using a graph convolution network to match line segments in a pair of images, and we design a graph-based strategy of matching line segments with relaxing to an optimal transport problem. In contrast to hand-crafted line matching algorithms, our approach learns local line segment descriptor and the matching simultaneously through end-to-end training. The results show our method outperforms the state-of-the-art techniques, and especially, the recall is improved from 45.28% to 70.47% under a similar presicion. The code of our work is available at https://github.com/mameng1/GraphLineMatching.
When to Use Convolutional Neural Networks for Inverse Problems
Reconstruction tasks in computer vision aim fundamentally to recover an undetermined signal from a set of noisy measurements. Examples include super-resolution, image denoising, and non-rigid structure from motion, all of which have seen recent advancements through deep learning. However, earlier work made extensive use of sparse signal reconstruction frameworks (e.g convolutional sparse coding). While this work was ultimately surpassed by deep learning, it rested on a much more developed theoretical framework. Recent work by Papyan et. al provides a bridge between the two approaches by showing how a convolutional neural network (CNN) can be viewed as an approximate solution to a convolutional sparse coding (CSC) problem. In this work we argue that for some types of inverse problems the CNN approximation breaks down leading to poor performance. We argue that for these types of problems the CSC approach should be used instead and validate this argument with empirical evidence. Specifically we identify JPEG artifact reduction and non-rigid trajectory reconstruction as challenging inverse problems for CNNs and demonstrate state of the art performance on them using a CSC method. Furthermore, we offer some practical improvements to this model and its application, and also show how insights from the CSC model can be used to make CNNs effective in tasks where their naive application fails.
Accurate Optimization of Weighted Nuclear Norm for Non-Rigid Structure from Motion
Fitting a matrix of a given rank to data in a least squares sense can be done very effectively using 2nd order methods such as Levenberg-Marquardt by explicitly optimizing over a bilinear parameterization of the matrix. In contrast, when applying more general singular value penalties, such as weighted nuclear norm priors, direct optimization over the elements of the matrix is typically used. Due to non-differentiability of the resulting objective function, first order sub-gradient or splitting methods are predominantly used. While these offer rapid iterations it is well known that they become inefficent near the minimum due to zig-zagging and in practice one is therefore often forced to settle for an approximate solution.   In this paper we show that more accurate results can in many cases be achieved with 2nd order methods. Our main result shows how to construct bilinear formulations, for a general class of regularizers including weighted nuclear norm penalties, that are provably equivalent to the original problems. With these formulations the regularizing function becomes twice differentiable and 2nd order methods can be applied. We show experimentally, on a number of structure from motion problems, that our approach outperforms state-of-the-art methods.
Unique Geometry and Texture from Corresponding Image Patches
We present a sufficient condition for recovering unique texture and viewpoints from unknown orthographic projections of a flat texture process. We show that four observations are sufficient in general, and we characterize the ambiguous cases. The results are applicable to shape from texture and texture-based structure from motion.
Reconstructing Sinus Anatomy from Endoscopic Video -- Towards a Radiation-free Approach for Quantitative Longitudinal Assessment
Reconstructing accurate 3D surface models of sinus anatomy directly from an endoscopic video is a promising avenue for cross-sectional and longitudinal analysis to better understand the relationship between sinus anatomy and surgical outcomes. We present a patient-specific, learning-based method for 3D reconstruction of sinus surface anatomy directly and only from endoscopic videos. We demonstrate the effectiveness and accuracy of our method on in and ex vivo data where we compare to sparse reconstructions from Structure from Motion, dense reconstruction from COLMAP, and ground truth anatomy from CT. Our textured reconstructions are watertight and enable measurement of clinically relevant parameters in good agreement with CT. The source code is available at https://github.com/lppllppl920/DenseReconstruction-Pytorch.
Multi-View Optimization of Local Feature Geometry
In this work, we address the problem of refining the geometry of local image features from multiple views without known scene or camera geometry. Current approaches to local feature detection are inherently limited in their keypoint localization accuracy because they only operate on a single view. This limitation has a negative impact on downstream tasks such as Structure-from-Motion, where inaccurate keypoints lead to large errors in triangulation and camera localization. Our proposed method naturally complements the traditional feature extraction and matching paradigm. We first estimate local geometric transformations between tentative matches and then optimize the keypoint locations over multiple views jointly according to a non-linear least squares formulation. Throughout a variety of experiments, we show that our method consistently improves the triangulation and camera localization performance for both hand-crafted and learned local features.
Active Depth Estimation: Stability Analysis and its Applications
Recovering the 3D structure of the surrounding environment is an essential task in any vision-controlled Structure-from-Motion (SfM) scheme. This paper focuses on the theoretical properties of the SfM, known as the incremental active depth estimation. The term incremental stands for estimating the 3D structure of the scene over a chronological sequence of image frames. Active means that the camera actuation is such that it improves estimation performance. Starting from a known depth estimation filter, this paper presents the stability analysis of the filter in terms of the control inputs of the camera. By analyzing the convergence of the estimator using the Lyapunov theory, we relax the constraints on the projection of the 3D point in the image plane when compared to previous results. Nonetheless, our method is capable of dealing with the cameras' limited field-of-view constraints. The main results are validated through experiments with simulated data.
Monocular Depth Estimation Based On Deep Learning: An Overview
Depth information is important for autonomous systems to perceive environments and estimate their own state. Traditional depth estimation methods, like structure from motion and stereo vision matching, are built on feature correspondences of multiple viewpoints. Meanwhile, the predicted depth maps are sparse. Inferring depth information from a single image (monocular depth estimation) is an ill-posed problem. With the rapid development of deep neural networks, monocular depth estimation based on deep learning has been widely studied recently and achieved promising performance in accuracy. Meanwhile, dense depth maps are estimated from single images by deep neural networks in an end-to-end manner. In order to improve the accuracy of depth estimation, different kinds of network frameworks, loss functions and training strategies are proposed subsequently. Therefore, we survey the current monocular depth estimation methods based on deep learning in this review. Initially, we conclude several widely used datasets and evaluation indicators in deep learning-based depth estimation. Furthermore, we review some representative existing methods according to different training manners: supervised, unsupervised and semi-supervised. Finally, we discuss the challenges and provide some ideas for future researches in monocular depth estimation.
Image Matching across Wide Baselines: From Paper to Practice
We introduce a comprehensive benchmark for local features and robust estimation algorithms, focusing on the downstream task -- the accuracy of the reconstructed camera pose -- as our primary metric. Our pipeline's modular structure allows easy integration, configuration, and combination of different methods and heuristics. This is demonstrated by embedding dozens of popular algorithms and evaluating them, from seminal works to the cutting edge of machine learning research. We show that with proper settings, classical solutions may still outperform the perceived state of the art.   Besides establishing the actual state of the art, the conducted experiments reveal unexpected properties of Structure from Motion (SfM) pipelines that can help improve their performance, for both algorithmic and learned methods. Data and code are online https://github.com/vcg-uvic/image-matching-benchmark, providing an easy-to-use and flexible framework for the benchmarking of local features and robust estimation methods, both alongside and against top-performing methods. This work provides a basis for the Image Matching Challenge https://vision.uvic.ca/image-matching-challenge.
Extremely Dense Point Correspondences using a Learned Feature Descriptor
High-quality 3D reconstructions from endoscopy video play an important role in many clinical applications, including surgical navigation where they enable direct video-CT registration. While many methods exist for general multi-view 3D reconstruction, these methods often fail to deliver satisfactory performance on endoscopic video. Part of the reason is that local descriptors that establish pair-wise point correspondences, and thus drive reconstruction, struggle when confronted with the texture-scarce surface of anatomy. Learning-based dense descriptors usually have larger receptive fields enabling the encoding of global information, which can be used to disambiguate matches. In this work, we present an effective self-supervised training scheme and novel loss design for dense descriptor learning. In direct comparison to recent local and dense descriptors on an in-house sinus endoscopy dataset, we demonstrate that our proposed dense descriptor can generalize to unseen patients and scopes, thereby largely improving the performance of Structure from Motion (SfM) in terms of model density and completeness. We also evaluate our method on a public dense optical flow dataset and a small-scale SfM public dataset to further demonstrate the effectiveness and generality of our method. The source code is available at https://github.com/lppllppl920/DenseDescriptorLearning-Pytorch.
Augmenting Visual Place Recognition with Structural Cues
In this paper, we propose to augment image-based place recognition with structural cues. Specifically, these structural cues are obtained using structure-from-motion, such that no additional sensors are needed for place recognition. This is achieved by augmenting the 2D convolutional neural network (CNN) typically used for image-based place recognition with a 3D CNN that takes as input a voxel grid derived from the structure-from-motion point cloud. We evaluate different methods for fusing the 2D and 3D features and obtain best performance with global average pooling and simple concatenation. On the Oxford RobotCar dataset, the resulting descriptor exhibits superior recognition performance compared to descriptors extracted from only one of the input modalities, including state-of-the-art image-based descriptors. Especially at low descriptor dimensionalities, we outperform state-of-the-art descriptors by up to 90%.
Leveraging Photogrammetric Mesh Models for Aerial-Ground Feature Point Matching Toward Integrated 3D Reconstruction
Integration of aerial and ground images has been proved as an efficient approach to enhance the surface reconstruction in urban environments. However, as the first step, the feature point matching between aerial and ground images is remarkably difficult, due to the large differences in viewpoint and illumination conditions. Previous studies based on geometry-aware image rectification have alleviated this problem, but the performance and convenience of this strategy is limited by several flaws, e.g. quadratic image pairs, segregated extraction of descriptors and occlusions. To address these problems, we propose a novel approach: leveraging photogrammetric mesh models for aerial-ground image matching. The methods of this proposed approach have linear time complexity with regard to the number of images, can explicitly handle low overlap using multi-view images and can be directly injected into off-the-shelf structure-from-motion (SfM) and multi-view stereo (MVS) solutions. First, aerial and ground images are reconstructed separately and initially co-registered through weak georeferencing data. Second, aerial models are rendered to the initial ground views, in which the color, depth and normal images are obtained. Then, the synthesized color images and the corresponding ground images are matched by comparing the descriptors, filtered by local geometrical information, and then propagated to the aerial views using depth images and patch-based matching. Experimental evaluations using various datasets confirm the superior performance of the proposed methods in aerial-ground image matching. In addition, incorporation of the existing SfM and MVS solutions into these methods enables more complete and accurate models to be directly obtained.
Deep NRSfM++: Towards Unsupervised 2D-3D Lifting in the Wild
The recovery of 3D shape and pose from 2D landmarks stemming from a large ensemble of images can be viewed as a non-rigid structure from motion (NRSfM) problem. Classical NRSfM approaches, however, are problematic as they rely on heuristic priors on the 3D structure (e.g. low rank) that do not scale well to large datasets. Learning-based methods are showing the potential to reconstruct a much broader set of 3D structures than classical methods -- dramatically expanding the importance of NRSfM to atemporal unsupervised 2D to 3D lifting. Hitherto, these learning approaches have not been able to effectively model perspective cameras or handle missing/occluded points -- limiting their applicability to in-the-wild datasets. In this paper, we present a generalized strategy for improving learning-based NRSfM methods to tackle the above issues. Our approach, Deep NRSfM++, achieves state-of-the-art performance across numerous large-scale benchmarks, outperforming both classical and learning-based 2D-3D lifting methods.
A Large Scale Event-based Detection Dataset for Automotive
We introduce the first very large detection dataset for event cameras. The dataset is composed of more than 39 hours of automotive recordings acquired with a 304x240 ATIS sensor. It contains open roads and very diverse driving scenarios, ranging from urban, highway, suburbs and countryside scenes, as well as different weather and illumination conditions. Manual bounding box annotations of cars and pedestrians contained in the recordings are also provided at a frequency between 1 and 4Hz, yielding more than 255,000 labels in total. We believe that the availability of a labeled dataset of this size will contribute to major advances in event-based vision tasks such as object detection and classification. We also expect benefits in other tasks such as optical flow, structure from motion and tracking, where for example, the large amount of data can be leveraged by self-supervised learning methods.
A Unified Optimization Framework for Low-Rank Inducing Penalties
In this paper we study the convex envelopes of a new class of functions. Using this approach, we are able to unify two important classes of regularizers from unbiased non-convex formulations and weighted nuclear norm penalties. This opens up for possibilities of combining the best of both worlds, and to leverage each methods contribution to cases where simply enforcing one of the regularizers are insufficient.   We show that the proposed regularizers can be incorporated in standard splitting schemes such as Alternating Direction Methods of Multipliers (ADMM), and other subgradient methods. Furthermore, we provide an efficient way of computing the proximal operator.   Lastly, we show on real non-rigid structure-from-motion (NRSfM) datasets, the issues that arise from using weighted nuclear norm penalties, and how this can be remedied using our proposed method.
Multi-View Photometric Stereo: A Robust Solution and Benchmark Dataset for Spatially Varying Isotropic Materials
We present a method to capture both 3D shape and spatially varying reflectance with a multi-view photometric stereo (MVPS) technique that works for general isotropic materials. Our algorithm is suitable for perspective cameras and nearby point light sources. Our data capture setup is simple, which consists of only a digital camera, some LED lights, and an optional automatic turntable. From a single viewpoint, we use a set of photometric stereo images to identify surface points with the same distance to the camera. We collect this information from multiple viewpoints and combine it with structure-from-motion to obtain a precise reconstruction of the complete 3D shape. The spatially varying isotropic bidirectional reflectance distribution function (BRDF) is captured by simultaneously inferring a set of basis BRDFs and their mixing weights at each surface point. In experiments, we demonstrate our algorithm with two different setups: a studio setup for highest precision and a desktop setup for best usability. According to our experiments, under the studio setting, the captured shapes are accurate to 0.5 millimeters and the captured reflectance has a relative root-mean-square error (RMSE) of 9%. We also quantitatively evaluate state-of-the-art MVPS on a newly collected benchmark dataset, which is publicly available for inspiring future research.
Single Image Depth Estimation Trained via Depth from Defocus Cues
Estimating depth from a single RGB images is a fundamental task in computer vision, which is most directly solved using supervised deep learning. In the field of unsupervised learning of depth from a single RGB image, depth is not given explicitly. Existing work in the field receives either a stereo pair, a monocular video, or multiple views, and, using losses that are based on structure-from-motion, trains a depth estimation network. In this work, we rely, instead of different views, on depth from focus cues. Learning is based on a novel Point Spread Function convolutional layer, which applies location specific kernels that arise from the Circle-Of-Confusion in each image location. We evaluate our method on data derived from five common datasets for depth estimation and lightfield images, and present results that are on par with supervised methods on KITTI and Make3D datasets and outperform unsupervised learning approaches. Since the phenomenon of depth from defocus is not dataset specific, we hypothesize that learning based on it would overfit less to the specific content in each dataset. Our experiments show that this is indeed the case, and an estimator learned on one dataset using our method provides better results on other datasets, than the directly supervised methods.
ConstructAide: Analyzing and Visualizing Construction Sites through Photographs and Building Models
We describe a set of tools for analyzing, visualizing, and assessing architectural/construction progress with unordered photo collections and 3D building models. With our interface, a user guides the registration of the model in one of the images, and our system automatically computes the alignment for the rest of the photos using a novel Structure-from-Motion (SfM) technique; images with nearby viewpoints are also brought into alignment with each other. After aligning the photo(s) and model(s), our system allows a user, such as a project manager or facility owner, to explore the construction site seamlessly in time, monitor the progress of construction, assess errors and deviations, and create photorealistic architectural visualizations. These interactions are facilitated by automatic reasoning performed by our system: static and dynamic occlusions are removed automatically, rendering information is collected, and semantic selection tools help guide user input. We also demonstrate that our user-assisted SfM method outperforms existing techniques on both real-world construction data and established multi-view datasets.
Graph-Based Parallel Large Scale Structure from Motion
While Structure from Motion (SfM) achieves great success in 3D reconstruction, it still meets challenges on large scale scenes. In this work, large scale SfM is deemed as a graph problem, and we tackle it in a divide-and-conquer manner. Firstly, the images clustering algorithm divides images into clusters with strong connectivity, leading to robust local reconstructions. Then followed with an image expansion step, the connection and completeness of scenes are enhanced by expanding along with a maximum spanning tree. After local reconstructions, we construct a minimum spanning tree (MinST) to find accurate similarity transformations. Then the MinST is transformed into a Minimum Height Tree (MHT) to find a proper anchor node and is further utilized to prevent error accumulation. When evaluated on different kinds of datasets, our approach shows superiority over the state-of-the-art in accuracy and efficiency. Our algorithm is open-sourced at https://github.com/AIBluefisher/GraphSfM.
Neural Outlier Rejection for Self-Supervised Keypoint Learning
Identifying salient points in images is a crucial component for visual odometry, Structure-from-Motion or SLAM algorithms. Recently, several learned keypoint methods have demonstrated compelling performance on challenging benchmarks. However, generating consistent and accurate training data for interest-point detection in natural images still remains challenging, especially for human annotators. We introduce IO-Net (i.e. InlierOutlierNet), a novel proxy task for the self-supervision of keypoint detection, description and matching. By making the sampling of inlier-outlier sets from point-pair correspondences fully differentiable within the keypoint learning framework, we show that are able to simultaneously self-supervise keypoint description and improve keypoint matching. Second, we introduce KeyPointNet, a keypoint-network architecture that is especially amenable to robust keypoint detection and description. We design the network to allow local keypoint aggregation to avoid artifacts due to spatial discretizations commonly used for this task, and we improve fine-grained keypoint descriptor performance by taking advantage of efficient sub-pixel convolutions to upsample the descriptor feature-maps to a higher operating resolution. Through extensive experiments and ablative analysis, we show that the proposed self-supervised keypoint learning method greatly improves the quality of feature matching and homography estimation on challenging benchmarks over the state-of-the-art.
DeepSFM: Structure From Motion Via Deep Bundle Adjustment
Structure from motion (SfM) is an essential computer vision problem which has not been well handled by deep learning. One of the promising trends is to apply explicit structural constraint, e.g. 3D cost volume, into the network. However, existing methods usually assume accurate camera poses either from GT or other methods, which is unrealistic in practice. In this work, we design a physical driven architecture, namely DeepSFM, inspired by traditional Bundle Adjustment (BA), which consists of two cost volume based architectures for depth and pose estimation respectively, iteratively running to improve both. The explicit constraints on both depth (structure) and pose (motion), when combined with the learning components, bring the merit from both traditional BA and emerging deep learning technology. Extensive experiments on various datasets show that our model achieves the state-of-the-art performance on both depth and pose estimation with superior robustness against less number of inputs and the noise in initialization.
Tangent Images for Mitigating Spherical Distortion
In this work, we propose "tangent images," a spherical image representation that facilitates transferable and scalable $360^\circ$ computer vision. Inspired by techniques in cartography and computer graphics, we render a spherical image to a set of distortion-mitigated, locally-planar image grids tangent to a subdivided icosahedron. By varying the resolution of these grids independently of the subdivision level, we can effectively represent high resolution spherical images while still benefiting from the low-distortion icosahedral spherical approximation. We show that training standard convolutional neural networks on tangent images compares favorably to the many specialized spherical convolutional kernels that have been developed, while also scaling efficiently to handle significantly higher spherical resolutions. Furthermore, because our approach does not require specialized kernels, we show that we can transfer networks trained on perspective images to spherical data without fine-tuning and with limited performance drop-off. Finally, we demonstrate that tangent images can be used to improve the quality of sparse feature detection on spherical images, illustrating its usefulness for traditional computer vision tasks like structure-from-motion and SLAM.
Necessary and Sufficient Polynomial Constraints on Compatible Triplets of Essential Matrices
The essential matrix incorporates relative rotation and translation parameters of two calibrated cameras. The well-known algebraic characterization of essential matrices, i.e. necessary and sufficient conditions under which an arbitrary matrix (of rank two) becomes essential, consists of a unique matrix equation of degree three. Based on this equation, a number of efficient algorithmic solutions to different relative pose estimation problems have been proposed. In three views, a possible way to describe the geometry of three calibrated cameras comes from considering compatible triplets of essential matrices. The compatibility is meant the correspondence of a triplet to a certain configuration of calibrated cameras. The main goal of this paper is to give an algebraic characterization of compatible triplets of essential matrices. Specifically, we propose necessary and sufficient polynomial constraints on a triplet of real rank-two essential matrices that ensure its compatibility. The constraints are given in the form of six cubic matrix equations, one quartic and one sextic scalar equations. An important advantage of the proposed constraints is their sufficiency even in the case of cameras with collinear centers. The applications of the constraints may include relative camera pose estimation in three and more views, averaging of essential matrices for incremental structure from motion, multiview camera auto-calibration, etc.
