Leaving the Lines Behind: Vision-Based Crop Row Exit for Agricultural Robot Navigation
Usage of purely vision based solutions for row switching is not well explored in existing vision based crop row navigation frameworks. This method only uses RGB images for local feature matching based visual feedback to exit crop row. Depth images were used at crop row end to estimate the navigation distance within headland. The algorithm was tested on diverse headland areas with soil and vegetation. The proposed method could reach the end of the crop row and then navigate into the headland completely leaving behind the crop row with an error margin of 50 cm.
A2B: Anchor to Barycentric Coordinate for Robust Correspondence
There is a long-standing problem of repeated patterns in correspondence problems, where mismatches frequently occur because of inherent ambiguity. The unique position information associated with repeated patterns makes coordinate representations a useful supplement to appearance representations for improving feature correspondences. However, the issue of appropriate coordinate representation has remained unresolved. In this study, we demonstrate that geometric-invariant coordinate representations, such as barycentric coordinates, can significantly reduce mismatches between features. The first step is to establish a theoretical foundation for geometrically invariant coordinates. We present a seed matching and filtering network (SMFNet) that combines feature matching and consistency filtering with a coarse-to-fine matching strategy in order to acquire reliable sparse correspondences. We then introduce DEGREE, a novel anchor-to-barycentric (A2B) coordinate encoding approach, which generates multiple affine-invariant correspondence coordinates from paired images. DEGREE can be used as a plug-in with standard descriptors, feature matchers, and consistency filters to improve the matching quality. Extensive experiments in synthesized indoor and outdoor datasets demonstrate that DEGREE alleviates the problem of repeated patterns and helps achieve state-of-the-art performance. Furthermore, DEGREE also reports competitive performance in the third Image Matching Challenge at CVPR 2021. This approach offers a new perspective to alleviate the problem of repeated patterns and emphasizes the importance of choosing coordinate representations for feature correspondences.
Pentagon-Match (PMatch): Identification of View-Invariant Planar Feature for Local Feature Matching-Based Homography Estimation
In computer vision, finding correct point correspondence among images plays an important role in many applications, such as image stitching, image retrieval, visual localization, etc. Most of the research works focus on the matching of local feature before a sampling method is employed, such as RANSAC, to verify initial matching results via repeated fitting of certain global transformation among the images. However, incorrect matches may still exist. Thus, a novel sampling scheme, Pentagon-Match (PMatch), is proposed in this work to verify the correctness of initially matched keypoints using pentagons randomly sampled from them. By ensuring shape and location of these pentagons are view-invariant with various evaluations of cross-ratio (CR), incorrect matches of keypoint can be identified easily with homography estimated from correctly matched pentagons. Experimental results show that highly accurate estimation of homography can be obtained efficiently for planar scenes of the HPatches dataset, based on keypoint matching results provided by LoFTR. Besides, accurate outlier identification for the above matching results and possible extension of the approach for multi-plane situation are also demonstrated.
SIDAR: Synthetic Image Dataset for Alignment & Restoration
Image alignment and image restoration are classical computer vision tasks. However, there is still a lack of datasets that provide enough data to train and evaluate end-to-end deep learning models. Obtaining ground-truth data for image alignment requires sophisticated structure-from-motion methods or optical flow systems that often do not provide enough data variance, i.e., typically providing a high number of image correspondences, while only introducing few changes of scenery within the underlying image sequences. Alternative approaches utilize random perspective distortions on existing image data. However, this only provides trivial distortions, lacking the complexity and variance of real-world scenarios. Instead, our proposed data augmentation helps to overcome the issue of data scarcity by using 3D rendering: images are added as textures onto a plane, then varying lighting conditions, shadows, and occlusions are added to the scene. The scene is rendered from multiple viewpoints, generating perspective distortions more consistent with real-world scenarios, with homographies closely resembling those of camera projections rather than randomized homographies. For each scene, we provide a sequence of distorted images with corresponding occlusion masks, homographies, and ground-truth labels. The resulting dataset can serve as a training and evaluation set for a multitude of tasks involving image alignment and artifact removal, such as deep homography estimation, dense image matching, 2D bundle adjustment, inpainting, shadow removal, denoising, content retrieval, and background subtraction. Our data generation pipeline is customizable and can be applied to any existing dataset, serving as a data augmentation to further improve the feature learning of any existing method.
LLMScore: Unveiling the Power of Large Language Models in Text-to-Image Synthesis Evaluation
Existing automatic evaluation on text-to-image synthesis can only provide an image-text matching score, without considering the object-level compositionality, which results in poor correlation with human judgments. In this work, we propose LLMScore, a new framework that offers evaluation scores with multi-granularity compositionality. LLMScore leverages the large language models (LLMs) to evaluate text-to-image models. Initially, it transforms the image into image-level and object-level visual descriptions. Then an evaluation instruction is fed into the LLMs to measure the alignment between the synthesized image and the text, ultimately generating a score accompanied by a rationale. Our substantial analysis reveals the highest correlation of LLMScore with human judgments on a wide range of datasets (Attribute Binding Contrast, Concept Conjunction, MSCOCO, DrawBench, PaintSkills). Notably, our LLMScore achieves Kendall's tau correlation with human evaluations that is 58.8% and 31.2% higher than the commonly-used text-image matching metrics CLIP and BLIP, respectively.
A Method for Training-free Person Image Picture Generation
The current state-of-the-art Diffusion model has demonstrated excellent results in generating images. However, the images are monotonous and are mostly the result of the distribution of images of people in the training set, making it challenging to generate multiple images for a fixed number of individuals. This problem can often only be solved by fine-tuning the training of the model. This means that each individual/animated character image must be trained if it is to be drawn, and the hardware and cost of this training is often beyond the reach of the average user, who accounts for the largest number of people. To solve this problem, the Character Image Feature Encoder model proposed in this paper enables the user to use the process by simply providing a picture of the character to make the image of the character in the generated image match the expectation. In addition, various details can be adjusted during the process using prompts. Unlike traditional Image-to-Image models, the Character Image Feature Encoder extracts only the relevant image features, rather than information about the model's composition or movements. In addition, the Character Image Feature Encoder can be adapted to different models after training. The proposed model can be conveniently incorporated into the Stable Diffusion generation process without modifying the model's ontology or used in combination with Stable Diffusion as a joint model.
Image Matching by Bare Homography
This paper presents Slime, a novel non-deep image matching framework which models the scene as rough local overlapping planes. This intermediate representation sits in-between the local affine approximation of the keypoint patches and the global matching based on both geometrical and similarity constraints, providing a progressive pruning of the correspondences, as planes are easier to handle with respect to general scenes. Slime proceeds by selectively detect, expand, merge and refine the matches associated to almost-planar areas of the scene by exploiting homography constraints. As a result, both the coverage and stability of correct matches over the scene are amplified, allowing traditional hybrid matching pipelines to make up lost ground against recent end-to-end deep matching methods.   In addition, the paper gives a thorough comparative analysis of recent state-of-the-art in image matching represented by end-to-end deep networks and hybrid pipelines. The evaluation considers both planar and non-planar scenes, taking into account critical and challenging scenarios including abrupt temporal image changes and strong variations in relative image rotations. According to this analysis, although the impressive progress done in this field, there is still a wide room for improvements to be investigated in future research.
CLIP-Count: Towards Text-Guided Zero-Shot Object Counting
Recent advances in visual-language models have shown remarkable zero-shot text-image matching ability that is transferable to down-stream tasks such as object detection and segmentation. However, adapting these models for object counting, which involves estimating the number of objects in an image, remains a formidable challenge. In this study, we conduct the first exploration of transferring visual-language models for class-agnostic object counting. Specifically, we propose CLIP-Count, a novel pipeline that estimates density maps for open-vocabulary objects with text guidance in a zero-shot manner, without requiring any finetuning on specific object classes. To align the text embedding with dense image features, we introduce a patch-text contrastive loss that guides the model to learn informative patch-level image representations for dense prediction. Moreover, we design a hierarchical patch-text interaction module that propagates semantic information across different resolution levels of image features. Benefiting from the full exploitation of the rich image-text alignment knowledge of pretrained visual-language models, our method effectively generates high-quality density maps for objects-of-interest. Extensive experiments on FSC-147, CARPK, and ShanghaiTech crowd counting datasets demonstrate that our proposed method achieves state-of-the-art accuracy and generalizability for zero-shot object counting. Project page at https://github.com/songrise/CLIP-Count
SENDD: Sparse Efficient Neural Depth and Deformation for Tissue Tracking
Deformable tracking and real-time estimation of 3D tissue motion is essential to enable automation and image guidance applications in robotically assisted surgery. Our model, Sparse Efficient Neural Depth and Deformation (SENDD), extends prior 2D tracking work to estimate flow in 3D space. SENDD introduces novel contributions of learned detection, and sparse per-point depth and 3D flow estimation, all with less than half a million parameters. SENDD does this by using graph neural networks of sparse keypoint matches to estimate both depth and 3D flow. We quantify and benchmark SENDD on a comprehensively labelled tissue dataset, and compare it to an equivalent 2D flow model. SENDD performs comparably while enabling applications that 2D flow cannot. SENDD can track points and estimate depth at 10fps on an NVIDIA RTX 4000 for 1280 tracked (query) points and its cost scales linearly with an increasing/decreasing number of points. SENDD enables multiple downstream applications that require 3D motion estimation.
Level-line Guided Edge Drawing for Robust Line Segment Detection
Line segment detection plays a cornerstone role in computer vision tasks. Among numerous detection methods that have been recently proposed, the ones based on edge drawing attract increasing attention owing to their excellent detection efficiency. However, the existing methods are not robust enough due to the inadequate usage of image gradients for edge drawing and line segment fitting. Based on the observation that the line segments should locate on the edge points with both consistent coordinates and level-line information, i.e., the unit vector perpendicular to the gradient orientation, this paper proposes a level-line guided edge drawing for robust line segment detection (GEDRLSD). The level-line information provides potential directions for edge tracking, which could be served as a guideline for accurate edge drawing. Additionally, the level-line information is fused in line segment fitting to improve the robustness. Numerical experiments show the superiority of the proposed GEDRLSD algorithm compared with state-of-the-art methods.
ColonMapper: topological mapping and localization for colonoscopy
Mapping and localization in endoluminal cavities from colonoscopies or gastroscopies has to overcome the challenge of significant shape and illumination changes between reobservations of the same endoluminal location. Instead of geometrical maps that strongly rely on a fixed scene geometry, topological maps are more adequate because they focus on visual place recognition, i.e. the capability to determine if two video shots are imaging the same location. We propose a topological mapping and localization system able to operate on real human colonoscopies. The map is a graph where each node codes a colon location by a set of real images of that location. The edges represent traversability between two nodes. For close-in-time images, where scene changes are minor, place recognition can be successfully managed with the recent transformers-based image-matching algorithms. However, under long-term changes -- such as different colonoscopies of the same patient -- feature-based matching fails. To address this, we propose a GeM global descriptor able to achieve high recall with significant changes in the scene. The addition of a Bayesian filter processing the map graph boosts the accuracy of the long-term place recognition, enabling relocalization in a previously built map. In the experiments, we construct a map during the withdrawal phase of a first colonoscopy. Subsequently, we prove the ability to relocalize within this map during a second colonoscopy of the same patient two weeks later. Code and models will be available upon acceptance.
A Comprehensive Review of Image Line Segment Detection and Description: Taxonomies, Comparisons, and Challenges
Detection and description of line segments lay the basis for numerous vision tasks. Although many studies have aimed to detect and describe line segments, a comprehensive review is lacking, obstructing their progress. This study fills the gap by comprehensively reviewing related studies on detecting and describing two-dimensional image line segments to provide researchers with an overall picture and deep understanding. Based on their mechanisms, two taxonomies for line segment detection and description are presented to introduce, analyze, and summarize these studies, facilitating researchers to learn about them quickly and extensively. The key issues, core ideas, advantages and disadvantages of existing methods, and their potential applications for each category are analyzed and summarized, including previously unknown findings. The challenges in existing methods and corresponding insights for potentially solving them are also provided to inspire researchers. In addition, some state-of-the-art line segment detection and description algorithms are evaluated without bias, and the evaluation code will be publicly available. The theoretical analysis, coupled with the experimental results, can guide researchers in selecting the best method for their intended vision applications. Finally, this study provides insights for potentially interesting future research directions to attract more attention from researchers to this field.
SFD2: Semantic-guided Feature Detection and Description
Visual localization is a fundamental task for various applications including autonomous driving and robotics. Prior methods focus on extracting large amounts of often redundant locally reliable features, resulting in limited efficiency and accuracy, especially in large-scale environments under challenging conditions. Instead, we propose to extract globally reliable features by implicitly embedding high-level semantics into both the detection and description processes. Specifically, our semantic-aware detector is able to detect keypoints from reliable regions (e.g. building, traffic lane) and suppress unreliable areas (e.g. sky, car) implicitly instead of relying on explicit semantic labels. This boosts the accuracy of keypoint matching by reducing the number of features sensitive to appearance changes and avoiding the need of additional segmentation networks at test time. Moreover, our descriptors are augmented with semantics and have stronger discriminative ability, providing more inliers at test time. Particularly, experiments on long-term large-scale visual localization Aachen Day-Night and RobotCar-Seasons datasets demonstrate that our model outperforms previous local features and gives competitive accuracy to advanced matchers but is about 2 and 3 times faster when using 2k and 4k keypoints, respectively.
DeepSim-Nets: Deep Similarity Networks for Stereo Image Matching
We present three multi-scale similarity learning architectures, or DeepSim networks. These models learn pixel-level matching with a contrastive loss and are agnostic to the geometry of the considered scene. We establish a middle ground between hybrid and end-to-end approaches by learning to densely allocate all corresponding pixels of an epipolar pair at once. Our features are learnt on large image tiles to be expressive and capture the scene's wider context. We also demonstrate that curated sample mining can enhance the overall robustness of the predicted similarities and improve the performance on radiometrically homogeneous areas. We run experiments on aerial and satellite datasets. Our DeepSim-Nets outperform the baseline hybrid approaches and generalize better to unseen scene geometries than end-to-end methods. Our flexible architecture can be readily adopted in standard multi-resolution image matching pipelines.
Long-term Visual Localization with Mobile Sensors
Despite the remarkable advances in image matching and pose estimation, image-based localization of a camera in a temporally-varying outdoor environment is still a challenging problem due to huge appearance disparity between query and reference images caused by illumination, seasonal and structural changes. In this work, we propose to leverage additional sensors on a mobile phone, mainly GPS, compass, and gravity sensor, to solve this challenging problem. We show that these mobile sensors provide decent initial poses and effective constraints to reduce the searching space in image matching and final pose estimation. With the initial pose, we are also able to devise a direct 2D-3D matching network to efficiently establish 2D-3D correspondences instead of tedious 2D-2D matching in existing systems. As no public dataset exists for the studied problem, we collect a new dataset that provides a variety of mobile sensor data and significant scene appearance variations, and develop a system to acquire ground-truth poses for query images. We benchmark our method as well as several state-of-the-art baselines and demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach. The code and dataset will be released publicly.
SiLK -- Simple Learned Keypoints
Keypoint detection & descriptors are foundational tech-nologies for computer vision tasks like image matching, 3D reconstruction and visual odometry. Hand-engineered methods like Harris corners, SIFT, and HOG descriptors have been used for decades; more recently, there has been a trend to introduce learning in an attempt to improve keypoint detectors. On inspection however, the results are difficult to interpret; recent learning-based methods employ a vast diversity of experimental setups and design choices: empirical results are often reported using different backbones, protocols, datasets, types of supervisions or tasks. Since these differences are often coupled together, it raises a natural question on what makes a good learned keypoint detector. In this work, we revisit the design of existing keypoint detectors by deconstructing their methodologies and identifying the key components. We re-design each component from first-principle and propose Simple Learned Keypoints (SiLK) that is fully-differentiable, lightweight, and flexible. Despite its simplicity, SiLK advances new state-of-the-art on Detection Repeatability and Homography Estimation tasks on HPatches and 3D Point-Cloud Registration task on ScanNet, and achieves competitive performance to state-of-the-art on camera pose estimation in 2022 Image Matching Challenge and ScanNet.
ALIKED: A Lighter Keypoint and Descriptor Extraction Network via Deformable Transformation
Image keypoints and descriptors play a crucial role in many visual measurement tasks. In recent years, deep neural networks have been widely used to improve the performance of keypoint and descriptor extraction. However, the conventional convolution operations do not provide the geometric invariance required for the descriptor. To address this issue, we propose the Sparse Deformable Descriptor Head (SDDH), which learns the deformable positions of supporting features for each keypoint and constructs deformable descriptors. Furthermore, SDDH extracts descriptors at sparse keypoints instead of a dense descriptor map, which enables efficient extraction of descriptors with strong expressiveness. In addition, we relax the neural reprojection error (NRE) loss from dense to sparse to train the extracted sparse descriptors. Experimental results show that the proposed network is both efficient and powerful in various visual measurement tasks, including image matching, 3D reconstruction, and visual relocalization.
GlueStick: Robust Image Matching by Sticking Points and Lines Together
Line segments are powerful features complementary to points. They offer structural cues, robust to drastic viewpoint and illumination changes, and can be present even in texture-less areas. However, describing and matching them is more challenging compared to points due to partial occlusions, lack of texture, or repetitiveness. This paper introduces a new matching paradigm, where points, lines, and their descriptors are unified into a single wireframe structure. We propose GlueStick, a deep matching Graph Neural Network (GNN) that takes two wireframes from different images and leverages the connectivity information between nodes to better glue them together. In addition to the increased efficiency brought by the joint matching, we also demonstrate a large boost of performance when leveraging the complementary nature of these two features in a single architecture. We show that our matching strategy outperforms the state-of-the-art approaches independently matching line segments and points for a wide variety of datasets and tasks. The code is available at https://github.com/cvg/GlueStick.
PoseMatcher: One-shot 6D Object Pose Estimation by Deep Feature Matching
Estimating the pose of an unseen object is the goal of the challenging one-shot pose estimation task. Previous methods have heavily relied on feature matching with great success. However, these methods are often inefficient and limited by their reliance on pre-trained models that have not be designed specifically for pose estimation. In this paper we propose PoseMatcher, an accurate model free one-shot object pose estimator that overcomes these limitations. We create a new training pipeline for object to image matching based on a three-view system: a query with a positive and negative templates. This simple yet effective approach emulates test time scenarios by cheaply constructing an approximation of the full object point cloud during training. To enable PoseMatcher to attend to distinct input modalities, an image and a pointcloud, we introduce IO-Layer, a new attention layer that efficiently accommodates self and cross attention between the inputs. Moreover, we propose a pruning strategy where we iteratively remove redundant regions of the target object to further reduce the complexity and noise of the network while maintaining accuracy. Finally we redesign commonly used pose refinement strategies, zoom and 2D offset refinements, and adapt them to the one-shot paradigm. We outperform all prior one-shot pose estimation methods on the Linemod and YCB-V datasets as well achieve results rivaling recent instance-level methods. The source code and models are available at https://github.com/PedroCastro/PoseMatcher.
Enhancing Deformable Local Features by Jointly Learning to Detect and Describe Keypoints
Local feature extraction is a standard approach in computer vision for tackling important tasks such as image matching and retrieval. The core assumption of most methods is that images undergo affine transformations, disregarding more complicated effects such as non-rigid deformations. Furthermore, incipient works tailored for non-rigid correspondence still rely on keypoint detectors designed for rigid transformations, hindering performance due to the limitations of the detector. We propose DALF (Deformation-Aware Local Features), a novel deformation-aware network for jointly detecting and describing keypoints, to handle the challenging problem of matching deformable surfaces. All network components work cooperatively through a feature fusion approach that enforces the descriptors' distinctiveness and invariance. Experiments using real deforming objects showcase the superiority of our method, where it delivers 8% improvement in matching scores compared to the previous best results. Our approach also enhances the performance of two real-world applications: deformable object retrieval and non-rigid 3D surface registration. Code for training, inference, and applications are publicly available at https://verlab.dcc.ufmg.br/descriptors/dalf_cvpr23.
Structured Epipolar Matcher for Local Feature Matching
Local feature matching is challenging due to textureless and repetitive patterns. Existing methods focus on using appearance features and global interaction and matching, while the importance of geometry priors in local feature matching has not been fully exploited. Different from these methods, in this paper, we delve into the importance of geometry prior and propose Structured Epipolar Matcher (SEM) for local feature matching, which can leverage the geometric information in an iterative matching way. The proposed model enjoys several merits. First, our proposed Structured Feature Extractor can model the relative positional relationship between pixels and high-confidence anchor points. Second, our proposed Epipolar Attention and Matching can filter out irrelevant areas by utilizing the epipolar constraint. Extensive experimental results on five standard benchmarks demonstrate the superior performance of our SEM compared to state-of-the-art methods. Project page: https://sem2023.github.io.
Adaptive Spot-Guided Transformer for Consistent Local Feature Matching
Local feature matching aims at finding correspondences between a pair of images. Although current detector-free methods leverage Transformer architecture to obtain an impressive performance, few works consider maintaining local consistency. Meanwhile, most methods struggle with large scale variations. To deal with the above issues, we propose Adaptive Spot-Guided Transformer (ASTR) for local feature matching, which jointly models the local consistency and scale variations in a unified coarse-to-fine architecture. The proposed ASTR enjoys several merits. First, we design a spot-guided aggregation module to avoid interfering with irrelevant areas during feature aggregation. Second, we design an adaptive scaling module to adjust the size of grids according to the calculated depth information at fine stage. Extensive experimental results on five standard benchmarks demonstrate that our ASTR performs favorably against state-of-the-art methods. Our code will be released on https://astr2023.github.io.
ASIC: Aligning Sparse in-the-wild Image Collections
We present a method for joint alignment of sparse in-the-wild image collections of an object category. Most prior works assume either ground-truth keypoint annotations or a large dataset of images of a single object category. However, neither of the above assumptions hold true for the long-tail of the objects present in the world. We present a self-supervised technique that directly optimizes on a sparse collection of images of a particular object/object category to obtain consistent dense correspondences across the collection. We use pairwise nearest neighbors obtained from deep features of a pre-trained vision transformer (ViT) model as noisy and sparse keypoint matches and make them dense and accurate matches by optimizing a neural network that jointly maps the image collection into a learned canonical grid. Experiments on CUB and SPair-71k benchmarks demonstrate that our method can produce globally consistent and higher quality correspondences across the image collection when compared to existing self-supervised methods. Code and other material will be made available at \url{https://kampta.github.io/asic}.
Learnable Graph Matching: A Practical Paradigm for Data Association
Data association is at the core of many computer vision tasks, e.g., multiple object tracking, image matching, and point cloud registration. Existing methods usually solve the data association problem by network flow optimization, bipartite matching, or end-to-end learning directly. Despite their popularity, we find some defects of the current solutions: they mostly ignore the intra-view context information; besides, they either train deep association models in an end-to-end way and hardly utilize the advantage of optimization-based assignment methods, or only use an off-the-shelf neural network to extract features. In this paper, we propose a general learnable graph matching method to address these issues. Especially, we model the intra-view relationships as an undirected graph. Then data association turns into a general graph matching problem between graphs. Furthermore, to make optimization end-to-end differentiable, we relax the original graph matching problem into continuous quadratic programming and then incorporate training into a deep graph neural network with KKT conditions and implicit function theorem. In MOT task, our method achieves state-of-the-art performance on several MOT datasets. For image matching, our method outperforms state-of-the-art methods with half training data and iterations on a popular indoor dataset, ScanNet. Code will be available at https://github.com/jiaweihe1996/GMTracker.
Learning Rotation-Equivariant Features for Visual Correspondence
Extracting discriminative local features that are invariant to imaging variations is an integral part of establishing correspondences between images. In this work, we introduce a self-supervised learning framework to extract discriminative rotation-invariant descriptors using group-equivariant CNNs. Thanks to employing group-equivariant CNNs, our method effectively learns to obtain rotation-equivariant features and their orientations explicitly, without having to perform sophisticated data augmentations. The resultant features and their orientations are further processed by group aligning, a novel invariant mapping technique that shifts the group-equivariant features by their orientations along the group dimension. Our group aligning technique achieves rotation-invariance without any collapse of the group dimension and thus eschews loss of discriminability. The proposed method is trained end-to-end in a self-supervised manner, where we use an orientation alignment loss for the orientation estimation and a contrastive descriptor loss for robust local descriptors to geometric/photometric variations. Our method demonstrates state-of-the-art matching accuracy among existing rotation-invariant descriptors under varying rotation and also shows competitive results when transferred to the task of keypoint matching and camera pose estimation.
Efficient and Accurate Co-Visible Region Localization with Matching Key-Points Crop (MKPC): A Two-Stage Pipeline for Enhancing Image Matching Performance
Image matching is a classic and fundamental task in computer vision. In this paper, under the hypothesis that the areas outside the co-visible regions carry little information, we propose a matching key-points crop (MKPC) algorithm. The MKPC locates, proposes and crops the critical regions, which are the co-visible areas with great efficiency and accuracy. Furthermore, building upon MKPC, we propose a general two-stage pipeline for image matching, which is compatible to any image matching models or combinations. We experimented with plugging SuperPoint + SuperGlue into the two-stage pipeline, whose results show that our method enhances the performance for outdoor pose estimations. What's more, in a fair comparative condition, our method outperforms the SOTA on Image Matching Challenge 2022 Benchmark, which represents the hardest outdoor benchmark of image matching currently.
Rethinking Optical Flow from Geometric Matching Consistent Perspective
Optical flow estimation is a challenging problem remaining unsolved. Recent deep learning based optical flow models have achieved considerable success. However, these models often train networks from the scratch on standard optical flow data, which restricts their ability to robustly and geometrically match image features. In this paper, we propose a rethinking to previous optical flow estimation. We particularly leverage Geometric Image Matching (GIM) as a pre-training task for the optical flow estimation (MatchFlow) with better feature representations, as GIM shares some common challenges as optical flow estimation, and with massive labeled real-world data. Thus, matching static scenes helps to learn more fundamental feature correlations of objects and scenes with consistent displacements. Specifically, the proposed MatchFlow model employs a QuadTree attention-based network pre-trained on MegaDepth to extract coarse features for further flow regression. Extensive experiments show that our model has great cross-dataset generalization. Our method achieves 11.5% and 10.1% error reduction from GMA on Sintel clean pass and KITTI test set. At the time of anonymous submission, our MatchFlow(G) enjoys state-of-the-art performance on Sintel clean and final pass compared to published approaches with comparable computation and memory footprint. Codes and models will be released in https://github.com/DQiaole/MatchFlow.
PATS: Patch Area Transportation with Subdivision for Local Feature Matching
Local feature matching aims at establishing sparse correspondences between a pair of images. Recently, detector-free methods present generally better performance but are not satisfactory in image pairs with large scale differences. In this paper, we propose Patch Area Transportation with Subdivision (PATS) to tackle this issue. Instead of building an expensive image pyramid, we start by splitting the original image pair into equal-sized patches and gradually resizing and subdividing them into smaller patches with the same scale. However, estimating scale differences between these patches is non-trivial since the scale differences are determined by both relative camera poses and scene structures, and thus spatially varying over image pairs. Moreover, it is hard to obtain the ground truth for real scenes. To this end, we propose patch area transportation, which enables learning scale differences in a self-supervised manner. In contrast to bipartite graph matching, which only handles one-to-one matching, our patch area transportation can deal with many-to-many relationships. PATS improves both matching accuracy and coverage, and shows superior performance in downstream tasks, such as relative pose estimation, visual localization, and optical flow estimation. The source code is available at \url{https://zju3dv.github.io/pats/}.
Parsing Line Segments of Floor Plan Images Using Graph Neural Networks
In this paper, we present a GNN-based Line Segment Parser (GLSP), which uses a junction heatmap to predict line segments' endpoints, and graph neural networks to extract line segments and their categories. Different from previous floor plan recognition methods, which rely on semantic segmentation, our proposed method is able to output vectorized line segment and requires less post-processing steps to be put into practical use. Our experiments show that the methods outperform state-of-the-art line segment detection models on multi-class line segment detection tasks with floor plan images. In the paper, we use our floor plan dataset named Large-scale Residential Floor Plan data (LRFP). The dataset contains a total of 271,035 floor plan images. The label corresponding to each picture contains the scale information, the categories and outlines of rooms, and the endpoint positions of line segments such as doors, windows, and walls. Our augmentation method makes the dataset adaptable to the drawing styles of as many countries and regions as possible.
Improving Transformer-based Image Matching by Cascaded Capturing Spatially Informative Keypoints
Learning robust local image feature matching is a fundamental low-level vision task, which has been widely explored in the past few years. Recently, detector-free local feature matchers based on transformers have shown promising results, which largely outperform pure Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) based ones. But correlations produced by transformer-based methods are spatially limited to the center of source views' coarse patches, because of the costly attention learning. In this work, we rethink this issue and find that such matching formulation degrades pose estimation, especially for low-resolution images. So we propose a transformer-based cascade matching model -- Cascade feature Matching TRansformer (CasMTR), to efficiently learn dense feature correlations, which allows us to choose more reliable matching pairs for the relative pose estimation. Instead of re-training a new detector, we use a simple yet effective Non-Maximum Suppression (NMS) post-process to filter keypoints through the confidence map, and largely improve the matching precision. CasMTR achieves state-of-the-art performance in indoor and outdoor pose estimation as well as visual localization. Moreover, thorough ablations show the efficacy of the proposed components and techniques.
ParaFormer: Parallel Attention Transformer for Efficient Feature Matching
Heavy computation is a bottleneck limiting deep-learningbased feature matching algorithms to be applied in many realtime applications. However, existing lightweight networks optimized for Euclidean data cannot address classical feature matching tasks, since sparse keypoint based descriptors are expected to be matched. This paper tackles this problem and proposes two concepts: 1) a novel parallel attention model entitled ParaFormer and 2) a graph based U-Net architecture with attentional pooling. First, ParaFormer fuses features and keypoint positions through the concept of amplitude and phase, and integrates self- and cross-attention in a parallel manner which achieves a win-win performance in terms of accuracy and efficiency. Second, with U-Net architecture and proposed attentional pooling, the ParaFormer-U variant significantly reduces computational complexity, and minimize performance loss caused by downsampling. Sufficient experiments on various applications, including homography estimation, pose estimation, and image matching, demonstrate that ParaFormer achieves state-of-the-art performance while maintaining high efficiency. The efficient ParaFormer-U variant achieves comparable performance with less than 50% FLOPs of the existing attention-based models.
RIFT2: Speeding-up RIFT with A New Rotation-Invariance Technique
Multimodal image matching is an important prerequisite for multisource image information fusion. Compared with the traditional matching problem, multimodal feature matching is more challenging due to the severe nonlinear radiation distortion (NRD). Radiation-variation insensitive feature transform (RIFT)~\cite{li2019rift} has shown very good robustness to NRD and become a baseline method in multimodal feature matching. However, the high computational cost for rotation invariance largely limits its usage in practice. In this paper, we propose an improved RIFT method, called RIFT2. We develop a new rotation invariance technique based on dominant index value, which avoids the construction process of convolution sequence ring. Hence, it can speed up the running time and reduce the memory consumption of the original RIFT by almost 3 times in theory. Extensive experiments show that RIFT2 achieves similar matching performance to RIFT while being much faster and having less memory consumption. The source code will be made publicly available in \url{https://github.com/LJY-RS/RIFT2-multimodal-matching-rotation}
Nonlinear Intensity, Scale and Rotation Invariant Matching for Multimodal Images
We present an effective method for the matching of multimodal images. Accurate image matching is the basis of various applications, such as image registration and structure from motion. Conventional matching methods fail when handling noisy multimodal image pairs with severe scale change, rotation, and nonlinear intensity distortion (NID). Toward this need, we introduce an image pyramid strategy to tackle scale change. We put forward an accurate primary orientation estimation approach to reduce the effect of image rotation at any angle. We utilize multi-scale and multi-orientation image filtering results and a feature-to-template matching scheme to ensure effective and accurate matching under large NID. Integrating these improvements significantly increases noise, scale, rotation, and NID invariant capability. Our experimental results confirm the excellent ability to achieve high-quality matches across various multimodal images. The proposed method outperforms the mainstream multimodal image matching methods in qualitative and quantitative evaluations. Our implementation is available at https://github.com/Zhongli-Fan/NISR.
Classification of structural building damage grades from multi-temporal photogrammetric point clouds using a machine learning model trained on virtual laser scanning data
Automatic damage assessment based on UAV-derived 3D point clouds can provide fast information on the damage situation after an earthquake. However, the assessment of multiple damage grades is challenging due to the variety in damage patterns and limited transferability of existing methods to other geographic regions or data sources. We present a novel approach to automatically assess multi-class building damage from real-world multi-temporal point clouds using a machine learning model trained on virtual laser scanning (VLS) data. We (1) identify object-specific change features, (2) separate changed and unchanged building parts, (3) train a random forest machine learning model with VLS data based on object-specific change features, and (4) use the classifier to assess building damage in real-world point clouds from photogrammetry-based dense image matching (DIM). We evaluate classifiers trained on different input data with respect to their capacity to classify three damage grades (heavy, extreme, destruction) in pre- and post-event DIM point clouds of a real earthquake event. Our approach is transferable with respect to multi-source input point clouds used for training (VLS) and application (DIM) of the model. We further achieve geographic transferability of the model by training it on simulated data of geometric change which characterises relevant damage grades across different geographic regions. The model yields high multi-target classification accuracies (overall accuracy: 92.0% - 95.1%). Its performance improves only slightly when using real-world region-specific training data (< 3% higher overall accuracies) and when using real-world region-specific training data (< 2% higher overall accuracies). We consider our approach relevant for applications where timely information on the damage situation is required and sufficient real-world training data is not available.
A Large Scale Homography Benchmark
We present a large-scale dataset of Planes in 3D, Pi3D, of roughly 1000 planes observed in 10 000 images from the 1DSfM dataset, and HEB, a large-scale homography estimation benchmark leveraging Pi3D. The applications of the Pi3D dataset are diverse, e.g. training or evaluating monocular depth, surface normal estimation and image matching algorithms. The HEB dataset consists of 226 260 homographies and includes roughly 4M correspondences. The homographies link images that often undergo significant viewpoint and illumination changes. As applications of HEB, we perform a rigorous evaluation of a wide range of robust estimators and deep learning-based correspondence filtering methods, establishing the current state-of-the-art in robust homography estimation. We also evaluate the uncertainty of the SIFT orientations and scales w.r.t. the ground truth coming from the underlying homographies and provide codes for comparing uncertainty of custom detectors. The dataset is available at \url{https://github.com/danini/homography-benchmark}.
OAMatcher: An Overlapping Areas-based Network for Accurate Local Feature Matching
Local feature matching is an essential component in many visual applications. In this work, we propose OAMatcher, a Tranformer-based detector-free method that imitates humans behavior to generate dense and accurate matches. Firstly, OAMatcher predicts overlapping areas to promote effective and clean global context aggregation, with the key insight that humans focus on the overlapping areas instead of the entire images after multiple observations when matching keypoints in image pairs. Technically, we first perform global information integration across all keypoints to imitate the humans behavior of observing the entire images at the beginning of feature matching. Then, we propose Overlapping Areas Prediction Module (OAPM) to capture the keypoints in co-visible regions and conduct feature enhancement among them to simulate that humans transit the focus regions from the entire images to overlapping regions, hence realizeing effective information exchange without the interference coming from the keypoints in non overlapping areas. Besides, since humans tend to leverage probability to determine whether the match labels are correct or not, we propose a Match Labels Weight Strategy (MLWS) to generate the coefficients used to appraise the reliability of the ground-truth match labels, while alleviating the influence of measurement noise coming from the data. Moreover, we integrate depth-wise convolution into Tranformer encoder layers to ensure OAMatcher extracts local and global feature representation concurrently. Comprehensive experiments demonstrate that OAMatcher outperforms the state-of-the-art methods on several benchmarks, while exhibiting excellent robustness to extreme appearance variants. The source code is available at https://github.com/DK-HU/OAMatcher.
General, Single-shot, Target-less, and Automatic LiDAR-Camera Extrinsic Calibration Toolbox
This paper presents an open source LiDAR-camera calibration toolbox that is general to LiDAR and camera projection models, requires only one pairing of LiDAR and camera data without a calibration target, and is fully automatic. For automatic initial guess estimation, we employ the SuperGlue image matching pipeline to find 2D-3D correspondences between LiDAR and camera data and estimate the LiDAR-camera transformation via RANSAC. Given the initial guess, we refine the transformation estimate with direct LiDAR-camera registration based on the normalized information distance, a mutual information-based cross-modal distance metric. For a handy calibration process, we also present several assistance capabilities (e.g., dynamic LiDAR data integration and user interface for making 2D-3D correspondence manually). The experimental results show that the proposed toolbox enables calibration of any combination of spinning and non-repetitive scan LiDARs and pinhole and omnidirectional cameras, and shows better calibration accuracy and robustness than those of the state-of-the-art edge-alignment-based calibration method.
Simple, Effective and General: A New Backbone for Cross-view Image Geo-localization
In this work, we aim at an important but less explored problem of a simple yet effective backbone specific for cross-view geo-localization task. Existing methods for cross-view geo-localization tasks are frequently characterized by 1) complicated methodologies, 2) GPU-consuming computations, and 3) a stringent assumption that aerial and ground images are centrally or orientation aligned. To address the above three challenges for cross-view image matching, we propose a new backbone network, named Simple Attention-based Image Geo-localization network (SAIG). The proposed SAIG effectively represents long-range interactions among patches as well as cross-view correspondence with multi-head self-attention layers. The "narrow-deep" architecture of our SAIG improves the feature richness without degradation in performance, while its shallow and effective convolutional stem preserves the locality, eliminating the loss of patchify boundary information. Our SAIG achieves state-of-the-art results on cross-view geo-localization, while being far simpler than previous works. Furthermore, with only 15.9% of the model parameters and half of the output dimension compared to the state-of-the-art, the SAIG adapts well across multiple cross-view datasets without employing any well-designed feature aggregation modules or feature alignment algorithms. In addition, our SAIG attains competitive scores on image retrieval benchmarks, further demonstrating its generalizability. As a backbone network, our SAIG is both easy to follow and computationally lightweight, which is meaningful in practical scenario. Moreover, we propose a simple Spatial-Mixed feature aggregation moDule (SMD) that can mix and project spatial information into a low-dimensional space to generate feature descriptors... (The code is available at https://github.com/yanghongji2007/SAIG)
Harmonizing Flows: Unsupervised MR harmonization based on normalizing flows
In this paper, we propose an unsupervised framework based on normalizing flows that harmonizes MR images to mimic the distribution of the source domain. The proposed framework consists of three steps. First, a shallow harmonizer network is trained to recover images of the source domain from their augmented versions. A normalizing flow network is then trained to learn the distribution of the source domain. Finally, at test time, a harmonizer network is modified so that the output images match the source domain's distribution learned by the normalizing flow model. Our unsupervised, source-free and task-independent approach is evaluated on cross-domain brain MRI segmentation using data from four different sites. Results demonstrate its superior performance compared to existing methods.
Local Feature Extraction from Salient Regions by Feature Map Transformation
Local feature matching is essential for many applications, such as localization and 3D reconstruction. However, it is challenging to match feature points accurately in various camera viewpoints and illumination conditions. In this paper, we propose a framework that robustly extracts and describes salient local features regardless of changing light and viewpoints. The framework suppresses illumination variations and encourages structural information to ignore the noise from light and to focus on edges. We classify the elements in the feature covariance matrix, an implicit feature map information, into two components. Our model extracts feature points from salient regions leading to reduced incorrect matches. In our experiments, the proposed method achieved higher accuracy than the state-of-the-art methods in the public dataset, such as HPatches, Aachen Day-Night, and ETH, which especially show highly variant viewpoints and illumination.
Feature-based Image Matching for Identifying Individual Kk
This report investigates an unsupervised, feature-based image matching pipeline for the novel application of identifying individual k\=ak\=a. Applied with a similarity network for clustering, this addresses a weakness of current supervised approaches to identifying individual birds which struggle to handle the introduction of new individuals to the population. Our approach uses object localisation to locate k\=ak\=a within images and then extracts local features that are invariant to rotation and scale. These features are matched between images with nearest neighbour matching techniques and mismatch removal to produce a similarity score for image match comparison. The results show that matches obtained via the image matching pipeline achieve high accuracy of true matches. We conclude that feature-based image matching could be used with a similarity network to provide a viable alternative to existing supervised approaches.
Instance Segmentation Based Graph Extraction for Handwritten Circuit Diagram Images
Handwritten circuit diagrams from educational scenarios or historic sources usually exist on analogue media. For deriving their functional principles or flaws automatically, they need to be digitized, extracting their electrical graph. Recently, the base technologies for automated pipelines facilitating this process shifted from computer vision to machine learning. This paper describes an approach for extracting both the electrical components (including their terminals and describing texts) as well their interconnections (including junctions and wire hops) by the means of instance segmentation and keypoint extraction. Consequently, the resulting graph extraction process consists of a simple two-step process of model inference and trivial geometric keypoint matching. The dataset itself, its preparation, model training and post-processing are described and publicly available.
DeepMatcher: A Deep Transformer-based Network for Robust and Accurate Local Feature Matching
Local feature matching between images remains a challenging task, especially in the presence of significant appearance variations, e.g., extreme viewpoint changes. In this work, we propose DeepMatcher, a deep Transformer-based network built upon our investigation of local feature matching in detector-free methods. The key insight is that local feature matcher with deep layers can capture more human-intuitive and simpler-to-match features. Based on this, we propose a Slimming Transformer (SlimFormer) dedicated for DeepMatcher, which leverages vector-based attention to model relevance among all keypoints and achieves long-range context aggregation in an efficient and effective manner. A relative position encoding is applied to each SlimFormer so as to explicitly disclose relative distance information, further improving the representation of keypoints. A layer-scale strategy is also employed in each SlimFormer to enable the network to assimilate message exchange from the residual block adaptively, thus allowing it to simulate the human behaviour that humans can acquire different matching cues each time they scan an image pair. To facilitate a better adaption of the SlimFormer, we introduce a Feature Transition Module (FTM) to ensure a smooth transition in feature scopes with different receptive fields. By interleaving the self- and cross-SlimFormer multiple times, DeepMatcher can easily establish pixel-wise dense matches at coarse level. Finally, we perceive the match refinement as a combination of classification and regression problems and design Fine Matches Module to predict confidence and offset concurrently, thereby generating robust and accurate matches. Experimentally, we show that DeepMatcher significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art methods on several benchmarks, demonstrating the superior matching capability of DeepMatcher.
Deep Learning-Based UAV Aerial Triangulation without Image Control Points
The emerging drone aerial survey has the advantages of low cost, high efficiency, and flexible use. However, UAVs are often equipped with cheap POS systems and non-measurement cameras, and their flight attitudes are easily affected. How to realize the large-scale mapping of UAV image-free control supported by POS faces many technical problems. The most basic and important core technology is how to accurately realize the absolute orientation of images through advanced aerial triangulation technology. In traditional aerial triangulation, image matching algorithms are constrained to varying degrees by preset prior knowledge. In recent years, deep learning has developed rapidly in the field of photogrammetric computer vision. It has surpassed the performance of traditional handcrafted features in many aspects. It has shown stronger stability in image-based navigation and positioning tasks, especially it has better resistance to unfavorable factors such as blur, illumination changes, and geometric distortion. Based on the introduction of the key technologies of aerial triangulation without image control points, this paper proposes a new drone image registration method based on deep learning image features to solve the problem of high mismatch rate in traditional methods. It adopts SuperPoint as the feature detector, uses the superior generalization performance of CNN to extract precise feature points from the UAV image, thereby achieving high-precision aerial triangulation. Experimental results show that under the same pre-processing and post-processing conditions, compared with the traditional method based on the SIFT algorithm, this method achieves suitable precision more efficiently, which can meet the requirements of UAV aerial triangulation without image control points in large-scale surveys.
The UNCOVER Survey: A first-look HST+JWST catalog of 50,000 galaxies near Abell 2744 and beyond
In November 2022, the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) returned deep near-infrared images of Abell~2744 -- a powerful lensing cluster capable of magnifying distant, incipient galaxies beyond it. Together with the existing Hubble Space Telescope (HST) imaging, this publicly available dataset opens a fundamentally new discovery space to understand the remaining mysteries of the formation and evolution of galaxies across cosmic time. In this work, we detect and measure some 50,000 objects across the 45 arcmin$^2$ JWST footprint down to a $5\,\sigma$ limiting magnitude of $\sim$29.9\,mag in 0.32" apertures. Photometry is performed using circular apertures on images matched to the point spread function of the reddest NIRCam band, F444W, and cleaned of bright cluster galaxies and the related intra-cluster light. To give an impression of the photometric performance, we measure photometric redshifts and achieve a $\sigma_{\rm NMAD}\approx0.03$ based on known, but relatively small, spectroscopic samples. With this paper, we publicly release HST and JWST PSF-matched photometric catalogs optimized for bright and extended sources (0.7" apertures) and compact and faint sources (0.32" apertures) along with basic photometric redshifts, rest-frame colors, and individual magnification estimates. These catalogs will set the stage for efficient and deep spectroscopic follow-up of the first JWST-selected samples in Summer 2023.
Translating Text Synopses to Video Storyboards
A storyboard is a roadmap for video creation which consists of shot-by-shot images to visualize key plots in a text synopsis. Creating video storyboards however remains challenging which not only requires association between high-level texts and images, but also demands for long-term reasoning to make transitions smooth across shots. In this paper, we propose a new task called Text synopsis to Video Storyboard (TeViS) which aims to retrieve an ordered sequence of images to visualize the text synopsis. We construct a MovieNet-TeViS benchmark based on the public MovieNet dataset. It contains 10K text synopses each paired with keyframes that are manually selected from corresponding movies by considering both relevance and cinematic coherence. We also present an encoder-decoder baseline for the task. The model uses a pretrained vision-and-language model to improve high-level text-image matching. To improve coherence in long-term shots, we further propose to pre-train the decoder on large-scale movie frames without text. Experimental results demonstrate that our proposed model significantly outperforms other models to create text-relevant and coherent storyboards. Nevertheless, there is still a large gap compared to human performance suggesting room for promising future work.
Transformer and GAN Based Super-Resolution Reconstruction Network for Medical Images
Because of the necessity to obtain high-quality images with minimal radiation doses, such as in low-field magnetic resonance imaging, super-resolution reconstruction in medical imaging has become more popular (MRI). However, due to the complexity and high aesthetic requirements of medical imaging, image super-resolution reconstruction remains a difficult challenge. In this paper, we offer a deep learning-based strategy for reconstructing medical images from low resolutions utilizing Transformer and Generative Adversarial Networks (T-GAN). The integrated system can extract more precise texture information and focus more on important locations through global image matching after successfully inserting Transformer into the generative adversarial network for picture reconstruction. Furthermore, we weighted the combination of content loss, adversarial loss, and adversarial feature loss as the final multi-task loss function during the training of our proposed model T-GAN. In comparison to established measures like PSNR and SSIM, our suggested T-GAN achieves optimal performance and recovers more texture features in super-resolution reconstruction of MRI scanned images of the knees and belly.
SuperGF: Unifying Local and Global Features for Visual Localization
Advanced visual localization techniques encompass image retrieval challenges and 6 Degree-of-Freedom (DoF) camera pose estimation, such as hierarchical localization. Thus, they must extract global and local features from input images. Previous methods have achieved this through resource-intensive or accuracy-reducing means, such as combinatorial pipelines or multi-task distillation. In this study, we present a novel method called SuperGF, which effectively unifies local and global features for visual localization, leading to a higher trade-off between localization accuracy and computational efficiency. Specifically, SuperGF is a transformer-based aggregation model that operates directly on image-matching-specific local features and generates global features for retrieval. We conduct experimental evaluations of our method in terms of both accuracy and efficiency, demonstrating its advantages over other methods. We also provide implementations of SuperGF using various types of local features, including dense and sparse learning-based or hand-crafted descriptors.
Seafloor-Invariant Caustics Removal from Underwater Imagery
Mapping the seafloor with underwater imaging cameras is of significant importance for various applications including marine engineering, geology, geomorphology, archaeology and biology. For shallow waters, among the underwater imaging challenges, caustics i.e., the complex physical phenomena resulting from the projection of light rays being refracted by the wavy surface, is likely the most crucial one. Caustics is the main factor during underwater imaging campaigns that massively degrade image quality and affect severely any 2D mosaicking or 3D reconstruction of the seabed. In this work, we propose a novel method for correcting the radiometric effects of caustics on shallow underwater imagery. Contrary to the state-of-the-art, the developed method can handle seabed and riverbed of any anaglyph, correcting the images using real pixel information, thus, improving image matching and 3D reconstruction processes. In particular, the developed method employs deep learning architectures in order to classify image pixels to "non-caustics" and "caustics". Then, exploits the 3D geometry of the scene to achieve a pixel-wise correction, by transferring appropriate color values between the overlapping underwater images. Moreover, to fill the current gap, we have collected, annotated and structured a real-world caustic dataset, namely R-CAUSTIC, which is openly available. Overall, based on the experimental results and validation the developed methodology is quite promising in both detecting caustics and reconstructing their intensity.
DeepLSD: Line Segment Detection and Refinement with Deep Image Gradients
Line segments are ubiquitous in our human-made world and are increasingly used in vision tasks. They are complementary to feature points thanks to their spatial extent and the structural information they provide. Traditional line detectors based on the image gradient are extremely fast and accurate, but lack robustness in noisy images and challenging conditions. Their learned counterparts are more repeatable and can handle challenging images, but at the cost of a lower accuracy and a bias towards wireframe lines. We propose to combine traditional and learned approaches to get the best of both worlds: an accurate and robust line detector that can be trained in the wild without ground truth lines. Our new line segment detector, DeepLSD, processes images with a deep network to generate a line attraction field, before converting it to a surrogate image gradient magnitude and angle, which is then fed to any existing handcrafted line detector. Additionally, we propose a new optimization tool to refine line segments based on the attraction field and vanishing points. This refinement improves the accuracy of current deep detectors by a large margin. We demonstrate the performance of our method on low-level line detection metrics, as well as on several downstream tasks using multiple challenging datasets. The source code and models are available at https://github.com/cvg/DeepLSD.
Shared Coupling-bridge for Weakly Supervised Local Feature Learning
Sparse local feature extraction is usually believed to be of important significance in typical vision tasks such as simultaneous localization and mapping, image matching and 3D reconstruction. At present, it still has some deficiencies needing further improvement, mainly including the discrimination power of extracted local descriptors, the localization accuracy of detected keypoints, and the efficiency of local feature learning. This paper focuses on promoting the currently popular sparse local feature learning with camera pose supervision. Therefore, it pertinently proposes a Shared Coupling-bridge scheme with four light-weight yet effective improvements for weakly-supervised local feature (SCFeat) learning. It mainly contains: i) the \emph{Feature-Fusion-ResUNet Backbone} (F2R-Backbone) for local descriptors learning, ii) a shared coupling-bridge normalization to improve the decoupling training of description network and detection network, iii) an improved detection network with peakiness measurement to detect keypoints and iv) the fundamental matrix error as a reward factor to further optimize feature detection training. Extensive experiments prove that our SCFeat improvement is effective. It could often obtain a state-of-the-art performance on classic image matching and visual localization. In terms of 3D reconstruction, it could still achieve competitive results. For sharing and communication, our source codes are available at https://github.com/sunjiayuanro/SCFeat.git.
Real Time Incremental Image Mosaicking Without Use of Any Camera Parameter
Over the past decade, there has been a significant increase in the use of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) to support a wide variety of missions, such as remote surveillance, vehicle tracking, and object detection. For problems involving processing of areas larger than a single image, the mosaicking of UAV imagery is a necessary step. Real-time image mosaicking is used for missions that requires fast response like search and rescue missions. It typically requires information from additional sensors, such as Global Position System (GPS) and Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU), to facilitate direct orientation, or 3D reconstruction approaches to recover the camera poses. This paper proposes a UAV-based system for real-time creation of incremental mosaics which does not require either direct or indirect camera parameters such as orientation information. Inspired by previous approaches, in the mosaicking process, feature extraction from images, matching of similar key points between images, finding homography matrix to warp and align images, and blending images to obtain mosaics better looking, plays important roles in the achievement of the high quality result. Edge detection is used in the blending step as a novel approach. Experimental results show that real-time incremental image mosaicking process can be completed satisfactorily and without need for any additional camera parameters.
ObjectMatch: Robust Registration using Canonical Object Correspondences
We present ObjectMatch, a semantic and object-centric camera pose estimator for RGB-D SLAM pipelines. Modern camera pose estimators rely on direct correspondences of overlapping regions between frames; however, they cannot align camera frames with little or no overlap. In this work, we propose to leverage indirect correspondences obtained via semantic object identification. For instance, when an object is seen from the front in one frame and from the back in another frame, we can provide additional pose constraints through canonical object correspondences. We first propose a neural network to predict such correspondences on a per-pixel level, which we then combine in our energy formulation with state-of-the-art keypoint matching solved with a joint Gauss-Newton optimization. In a pairwise setting, our method improves registration recall of state-of-the-art feature matching, including from 24% to 45% in pairs with 10% or less inter-frame overlap. In registering RGB-D sequences, our method outperforms cutting-edge SLAM baselines in challenging, low-frame-rate scenarios, achieving more than 35% reduction in trajectory error in multiple scenes.
Universe Points Representation Learning for Partial Multi-Graph Matching
Many challenges from natural world can be formulated as a graph matching problem. Previous deep learning-based methods mainly consider a full two-graph matching setting. In this work, we study the more general partial matching problem with multi-graph cycle consistency guarantees. Building on a recent progress in deep learning on graphs, we propose a novel data-driven method (URL) for partial multi-graph matching, which uses an object-to-universe formulation and learns latent representations of abstract universe points. The proposed approach advances the state of the art in semantic keypoint matching problem, evaluated on Pascal VOC, CUB, and Willow datasets. Moreover, the set of controlled experiments on a synthetic graph matching dataset demonstrates the scalability of our method to graphs with large number of nodes and its robustness to high partiality.
Self-Supervised Feature Learning for Long-Term Metric Visual Localization
Visual localization is the task of estimating camera pose in a known scene, which is an essential problem in robotics and computer vision. However, long-term visual localization is still a challenge due to the environmental appearance changes caused by lighting and seasons. While techniques exist to address appearance changes using neural networks, these methods typically require ground-truth pose information to generate accurate image correspondences or act as a supervisory signal during training. In this paper, we present a novel self-supervised feature learning framework for metric visual localization. We use a sequence-based image matching algorithm across different sequences of images (i.e., experiences) to generate image correspondences without ground-truth labels. We can then sample image pairs to train a deep neural network that learns sparse features with associated descriptors and scores without ground-truth pose supervision. The learned features can be used together with a classical pose estimator for visual stereo localization. We validate the learned features by integrating with an existing Visual Teach & Repeat pipeline to perform closed-loop localization experiments under different lighting conditions for a total of 22.4 km.
FeatureBooster: Boosting Feature Descriptors with a Lightweight Neural Network
We introduce a lightweight network to improve descriptors of keypoints within the same image. The network takes the original descriptors and the geometric properties of keypoints as the input, and uses an MLP-based self-boosting stage and a Transformer-based cross-boosting stage to enhance the descriptors. The boosted descriptors can be either real-valued or binary ones. We use the proposed network to boost both hand-crafted (ORB, SIFT) and the state-of-the-art learning-based descriptors (SuperPoint, ALIKE) and evaluate them on image matching, visual localization, and structure-from-motion tasks. The results show that our method significantly improves the performance of each task, particularly in challenging cases such as large illumination changes or repetitive patterns. Our method requires only 3.2ms on desktop GPU and 27ms on embedded GPU to process 2000 features, which is fast enough to be applied to a practical system. The code and trained weights are publicly available at github.com/SJTU-ViSYS/FeatureBooster.
Real-time Local Feature with Global Visual Information Enhancement
Local feature provides compact and invariant image representation for various visual tasks. Current deep learning-based local feature algorithms always utilize convolution neural network (CNN) architecture with limited receptive field. Besides, even with high-performance GPU devices, the computational efficiency of local features cannot be satisfactory. In this paper, we tackle such problems by proposing a CNN-based local feature algorithm. The proposed method introduces a global enhancement module to fuse global visual clues in a light-weight network, and then optimizes the network by novel deep reinforcement learning scheme from the perspective of local feature matching task. Experiments on the public benchmarks demonstrate that the proposal can achieve considerable robustness against visual interference and meanwhile run in real time.
Person Text-Image Matching via Text-Feature Interpretability Embedding and External Attack Node Implantation
Person text-image matching, also known as text based person search, aims to retrieve images of specific pedestrians using text descriptions. Although person text-image matching has made great research progress, existing methods still face two challenges. First, the lack of interpretability of text features makes it challenging to effectively align them with their corresponding image features. Second, the same pedestrian image often corresponds to multiple different text descriptions, and a single text description can correspond to multiple different images of the same identity. The diversity of text descriptions and images makes it difficult for a network to extract robust features that match the two modalities. To address these problems, we propose a person text-image matching method by embedding text-feature interpretability and an external attack node. Specifically, we improve the interpretability of text features by providing them with consistent semantic information with image features to achieve the alignment of text and describe image region features.To address the challenges posed by the diversity of text and the corresponding person images, we treat the variation caused by diversity to features as caused by perturbation information and propose a novel adversarial attack and defense method to solve it. In the model design, graph convolution is used as the basic framework for feature representation and the adversarial attacks caused by text and image diversity on feature extraction is simulated by implanting an additional attack node in the graph convolution layer to improve the robustness of the model against text and image diversity. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness and superiority of text-pedestrian image matching over existing methods. The source code of the method is published at
Detecting Line Segments in Motion-blurred Images with Events
Making line segment detectors more reliable under motion blurs is one of the most important challenges for practical applications, such as visual SLAM and 3D reconstruction. Existing line segment detection methods face severe performance degradation for accurately detecting and locating line segments when motion blur occurs. While event data shows strong complementary characteristics to images for minimal blur and edge awareness at high-temporal resolution, potentially beneficial for reliable line segment recognition. To robustly detect line segments over motion blurs, we propose to leverage the complementary information of images and events. To achieve this, we first design a general frame-event feature fusion network to extract and fuse the detailed image textures and low-latency event edges, which consists of a channel-attention-based shallow fusion module and a self-attention-based dual hourglass module. We then utilize two state-of-the-art wireframe parsing networks to detect line segments on the fused feature map. Besides, we contribute a synthetic and a realistic dataset for line segment detection, i.e., FE-Wireframe and FE-Blurframe, with pairwise motion-blurred images and events. Extensive experiments on both datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method. When tested on the real dataset, our method achieves 63.3% mean structural average precision (msAP) with the model pre-trained on the FE-Wireframe and fine-tuned on the FE-Blurframe, improved by 32.6 and 11.3 points compared with models trained on synthetic only and real only, respectively. The codes, datasets, and trained models are released at: https://levenberg.github.io/FE-LSD
Information-guided pixel augmentation for pixel-wise contrastive learning
Contrastive learning (CL) is a form of self-supervised learning and has been widely used for various tasks. Different from widely studied instance-level contrastive learning, pixel-wise contrastive learning mainly helps with pixel-wise tasks such as medical landmark detection. The counterpart to an instance in instance-level CL is a pixel, along with its neighboring context, in pixel-wise CL. Aiming to build better feature representation, there is a vast literature about designing instance augmentation strategies for instance-level CL; but there is little similar work on pixel augmentation for pixel-wise CL with a pixel granularity. In this paper, we attempt to bridge this gap. We first classify a pixel into three categories, namely low-, medium-, and high-informative, based on the information quantity the pixel contains. Inspired by the ``InfoMin" principle, we then design separate augmentation strategies for each category in terms of augmentation intensity and sampling ratio. Extensive experiments validate that our information-guided pixel augmentation strategy succeeds in encoding more discriminative representations and surpassing other competitive approaches in unsupervised local feature matching. Furthermore, our pretrained model improves the performance of both one-shot and fully supervised models. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to propose a pixel augmentation method with a pixel granularity for enhancing unsupervised pixel-wise contrastive learning.
Fast Key Points Detection and Matching for Tree-Structured Images
This paper offers a new authentication algorithm based on image matching of nano-resolution visual identifiers with tree-shaped patterns. The algorithm includes image-to-tree conversion by greedy extraction of the fractal pattern skeleton along with a custom-built graph matching algorithm that is robust against imaging artifacts such as scaling, rotation, scratch, and illumination change. The proposed algorithm is applicable to a variety of tree-structured image matching, but our focus is on dendrites, recently-developed visual identifiers. Dendrites are entropy rich and unclonable with existing 2D and 3D printers due to their natural randomness, nano-resolution granularity, and 3D facets, making them an appropriate choice for security applications such as supply chain trace and tracking. The proposed algorithm improves upon graph matching with standard image descriptors. For instance, image inconsistency due to the camera sensor noise may cause unexpected feature extraction leading to inaccurate tree conversion and authentication failure. Also, previous tree extraction algorithms are prohibitively slow hindering their scalability to large systems. In this paper, we fix the current issues of [1] and accelerate the key points extraction up to 10-times faster by implementing a new skeleton extraction method, a new key points searching algorithm, as well as an optimized key point matching algorithm. Using minimum enclosing circle and center points, make the algorithm robust to the choice of pattern shape. In contrast to [1] our algorithm handles general graphs with loop connections, therefore is applicable to a wider range of applications such as transportation map analysis, fingerprints, and retina vessel imaging.
A Comparative Study on Deep-Learning Methods for Dense Image Matching of Multi-angle and Multi-date Remote Sensing Stereo Images
Deep learning (DL) stereo matching methods gained great attention in remote sensing satellite datasets. However, most of these existing studies conclude assessments based only on a few/single stereo images lacking a systematic evaluation on how robust DL methods are on satellite stereo images with varying radiometric and geometric configurations. This paper provides an evaluation of four DL stereo matching methods through hundreds of multi-date multi-site satellite stereo pairs with varying geometric configurations, against the traditional well-practiced Census-SGM (Semi-global matching), to comprehensively understand their accuracy, robustness, generalization capabilities, and their practical potential. The DL methods include a learning-based cost metric through convolutional neural networks (MC-CNN) followed by SGM, and three end-to-end (E2E) learning models using Geometry and Context Network (GCNet), Pyramid Stereo Matching Network (PSMNet), and LEAStereo. Our experiments show that E2E algorithms can achieve upper limits of geometric accuracies, while may not generalize well for unseen data. The learning-based cost metric and Census-SGM are rather robust and can consistently achieve acceptable results. All DL algorithms are robust to geometric configurations of stereo pairs and are less sensitive in comparison to the Census-SGM, while learning-based cost metrics can generalize on satellite images when trained on different datasets (airborne or ground-view).
DeepMLE: A Robust Deep Maximum Likelihood Estimator for Two-view Structure from Motion
Two-view structure from motion (SfM) is the cornerstone of 3D reconstruction and visual SLAM (vSLAM). Many existing end-to-end learning-based methods usually formulate it as a brute regression problem. However, the inadequate utilization of traditional geometry model makes the model not robust in unseen environments. To improve the generalization capability and robustness of end-to-end two-view SfM network, we formulate the two-view SfM problem as a maximum likelihood estimation (MLE) and solve it with the proposed framework, denoted as DeepMLE. First, we propose to take the deep multi-scale correlation maps to depict the visual similarities of 2D image matches decided by ego-motion. In addition, in order to increase the robustness of our framework, we formulate the likelihood function of the correlations of 2D image matches as a Gaussian and Uniform mixture distribution which takes the uncertainty caused by illumination changes, image noise and moving objects into account. Meanwhile, an uncertainty prediction module is presented to predict the pixel-wise distribution parameters. Finally, we iteratively refine the depth and relative camera pose using the gradient-like information to maximize the likelihood function of the correlations. Extensive experimental results on several datasets prove that our method significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art end-to-end two-view SfM approaches in accuracy and generalization capability.
Mars Rover Localization Based on A2G Obstacle Distribution Pattern Matching
Rover localization is one of the perquisites for large scale rover exploration. In NASA's Mars 2020 mission, the Ingenuity helicopter is carried together with the rover, which is capable of obtaining high-resolution imagery of Mars terrain, and it is possible to perform localization based on aerial-to-ground (A2G) imagery correspondence. However, considering the low-texture nature of the Mars terrain, and large perspective changes between UAV and rover imagery, traditional image matching methods will struggle to obtain valid image correspondence. In this paper we propose a novel pipeline for Mars rover localization. An algorithm combing image-based rock detection and rock distribution pattern matching is used to acquire A2G imagery correspondence, thus establishing the rover position in a UAV-generated ground map. Feasibility of this method is evaluated on sample data from a Mars analogue environment. The proposed method can serve as a reliable assist in future Mars missions.
Coarse-to-Fine Point Cloud Registration with SE(3)-Equivariant Representations
Point cloud registration is a crucial problem in computer vision and robotics. Existing methods either rely on matching local geometric features, which are sensitive to the pose differences, or leverage global shapes, which leads to inconsistency when facing distribution variances such as partial overlapping. Combining the advantages of both types of methods, we adopt a coarse-to-fine pipeline that concurrently handles both issues. We first reduce the pose differences between input point clouds by aligning global features; then we match the local features to further refine the inaccurate alignments resulting from distribution variances. As global feature alignment requires the features to preserve the poses of input point clouds and local feature matching expects the features to be invariant to these poses, we propose an SE(3)-equivariant feature extractor to simultaneously generate two types of features. In this feature extractor, representations that preserve the poses are first encoded by our novel SE(3)-equivariant network and then converted into pose-invariant ones by a pose-detaching module. Experiments demonstrate that our proposed method increases the recall rate by 20% compared to state-of-the-art methods when facing both pose differences and distribution variances.
Learning-Based Dimensionality Reduction for Computing Compact and Effective Local Feature Descriptors
A distinctive representation of image patches in form of features is a key component of many computer vision and robotics tasks, such as image matching, image retrieval, and visual localization. State-of-the-art descriptors, from hand-crafted descriptors such as SIFT to learned ones such as HardNet, are usually high dimensional; 128 dimensions or even more. The higher the dimensionality, the larger the memory consumption and computational time for approaches using such descriptors. In this paper, we investigate multi-layer perceptrons (MLPs) to extract low-dimensional but high-quality descriptors. We thoroughly analyze our method in unsupervised, self-supervised, and supervised settings, and evaluate the dimensionality reduction results on four representative descriptors. We consider different applications, including visual localization, patch verification, image matching and retrieval. The experiments show that our lightweight MLPs achieve better dimensionality reduction than PCA. The lower-dimensional descriptors generated by our approach outperform the original higher-dimensional descriptors in downstream tasks, especially for the hand-crafted ones. The code will be available at https://github.com/PRBonn/descriptor-dr.
ECO-TR: Efficient Correspondences Finding Via Coarse-to-Fine Refinement
Modeling sparse and dense image matching within a unified functional correspondence model has recently attracted increasing research interest. However, existing efforts mainly focus on improving matching accuracy while ignoring its efficiency, which is crucial for realworld applications. In this paper, we propose an efficient structure named Efficient Correspondence Transformer (ECO-TR) by finding correspondences in a coarse-to-fine manner, which significantly improves the efficiency of functional correspondence model. To achieve this, multiple transformer blocks are stage-wisely connected to gradually refine the predicted coordinates upon a shared multi-scale feature extraction network. Given a pair of images and for arbitrary query coordinates, all the correspondences are predicted within a single feed-forward pass. We further propose an adaptive query-clustering strategy and an uncertainty-based outlier detection module to cooperate with the proposed framework for faster and better predictions. Experiments on various sparse and dense matching tasks demonstrate the superiority of our method in both efficiency and effectiveness against existing state-of-the-arts.
DRKF: Distilled Rotated Kernel Fusion for Efficient Rotation Invariant Descriptors in Local Feature Matching
The performance of local feature descriptors degrades in the presence of large rotation variations. To address this issue, we present an efficient approach to learning rotation invariant descriptors. Specifically, we propose Rotated Kernel Fusion (RKF) which imposes rotations on each convolution kernel and improves the inherent nature of CNN. Since RKF can be processed by the subsequent re-parameterization, no extra computational costs will be introduced in the inference stage. Moreover, we present Multi-oriented Feature Aggregation (MOFA) which ensembles features extracted from multiple rotated versions of input images and can provide auxiliary information for the training of RKF by leveraging the knowledge distillation strategy. We refer to the distilled RKF model as DRKF. Besides the evaluation on a rotation-augmented version of the public dataset HPatches, we also contribute a new dataset named DiverseBEV which consists of bird's eye view images with large viewpoint changes and camera rotations. Extensive experiments show that our method can outperform other state-of-the-art techniques when exposed to large rotation variations.
SRFeat: Learning Locally Accurate and Globally Consistent Non-Rigid Shape Correspondence
In this work, we present a novel learning-based framework that combines the local accuracy of contrastive learning with the global consistency of geometric approaches, for robust non-rigid matching. We first observe that while contrastive learning can lead to powerful point-wise features, the learned correspondences commonly lack smoothness and consistency, owing to the purely combinatorial nature of the standard contrastive losses. To overcome this limitation we propose to boost contrastive feature learning with two types of smoothness regularization that inject geometric information into correspondence learning. With this novel combination in hand, the resulting features are both highly discriminative across individual points, and, at the same time, lead to robust and consistent correspondences, through simple proximity queries. Our framework is general and is applicable to local feature learning in both the 3D and 2D domains. We demonstrate the superiority of our approach through extensive experiments on a wide range of challenging matching benchmarks, including 3D non-rigid shape correspondence and 2D image keypoint matching.
Uncertainty-aware Efficient Subgraph Isomorphism using Graph Topology
Subgraph isomorphism or subgraph matching is generally considered as an NP-complete problem, made more complex in practical applications where the edge weights take real values and are subject to measurement noise and possible anomalies. To the best of our knowledge, almost all subgraph matching methods utilize node labels to perform node-node matching. In the absence of such labels (in applications such as image matching and map matching among others), these subgraph matching methods do not work. We propose a method for identifying the node correspondence between a subgraph and a full graph in the inexact case without node labels in two steps - (a) extract the minimal unique topology preserving subset from the subgraph and find its feasible matching in the full graph, and (b) implement a consensus-based algorithm to expand the matched node set by pairing unique paths based on boundary commutativity. Going beyond the existing subgraph matching approaches, the proposed method is shown to have realistically sub-linear computational efficiency, robustness to random measurement noise, and good statistical properties. Our method is also readily applicable to the exact matching case without loss of generality. To demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method, a simulation and a case study is performed on the Erdos-Renyi random graphs and the image-based affine covariant features dataset respectively.
LSDNet: Trainable Modification of LSD Algorithm for Real-Time Line Segment Detection
As of today, the best accuracy in line segment detection (LSD) is achieved by algorithms based on convolutional neural networks - CNNs. Unfortunately, these methods utilize deep, heavy networks and are slower than traditional model-based detectors. In this paper we build an accurate yet fast CNN- based detector, LSDNet, by incorporating a lightweight CNN into a classical LSD detector. Specifically, we replace the first step of the original LSD algorithm - construction of line segments heatmap and tangent field from raw image gradients - with a lightweight CNN, which is able to calculate more complex and rich features. The second part of the LSD algorithm is used with only minor modifications. Compared with several modern line segment detectors on standard Wireframe dataset, the proposed LSDNet provides the highest speed (among CNN-based detectors) of 214 FPS with a competitive accuracy of 78 Fh . Although the best-reported accuracy is 83 Fh at 33 FPS, we speculate that the observed accuracy gap is caused by errors in annotations and the actual gap is significantly lower. We point out systematic inconsistencies in the annotations of popular line detection benchmarks - Wireframe and York Urban, carefully reannotate a subset of images and show that (i) existing detectors have improved quality on updated annotations without retraining, suggesting that new annotations correlate better with the notion of correct line segment detection; (ii) the gap between accuracies of our detector and others diminishes to negligible 0.2 Fh , with our method being the fastest.
ASpanFormer: Detector-Free Image Matching with Adaptive Span Transformer
Generating robust and reliable correspondences across images is a fundamental task for a diversity of applications. To capture context at both global and local granularity, we propose ASpanFormer, a Transformer-based detector-free matcher that is built on hierarchical attention structure, adopting a novel attention operation which is capable of adjusting attention span in a self-adaptive manner. To achieve this goal, first, flow maps are regressed in each cross attention phase to locate the center of search region. Next, a sampling grid is generated around the center, whose size, instead of being empirically configured as fixed, is adaptively computed from a pixel uncertainty estimated along with the flow map. Finally, attention is computed across two images within derived regions, referred to as attention span. By these means, we are able to not only maintain long-range dependencies, but also enable fine-grained attention among pixels of high relevance that compensates essential locality and piece-wise smoothness in matching tasks. State-of-the-art accuracy on a wide range of evaluation benchmarks validates the strong matching capability of our method.
A Gis Aided Approach for Geolocalizing an Unmanned Aerial System Using Deep Learning
The Global Positioning System (GPS) has become a part of our daily life with the primary goal of providing geopositioning service. For an unmanned aerial system (UAS), geolocalization ability is an extremely important necessity which is achieved using Inertial Navigation System (INS) with the GPS at its heart. Without geopositioning service, UAS is unable to fly to its destination or come back home. Unfortunately, GPS signals can be jammed and suffer from a multipath problem in urban canyons. Our goal is to propose an alternative approach to geolocalize a UAS when GPS signal is degraded or denied. Considering UAS has a downward-looking camera on its platform that can acquire real-time images as the platform flies, we apply modern deep learning techniques to achieve geolocalization. In particular, we perform image matching to establish latent feature conjugates between UAS acquired imagery and satellite orthophotos. A typical application of feature matching suffers from high-rise buildings and new constructions in the field that introduce uncertainties into homography estimation, hence results in poor geolocalization performance. Instead, we extract GIS information from OpenStreetMap (OSM) to semantically segment matched features into building and terrain classes. The GIS mask works as a filter in selecting semantically matched features that enhance coplanarity conditions and the UAS geolocalization accuracy. Once the paper is published our code will be publicly available at https://github.com/OSUPCVLab/UbihereDrone2021.
UAS Navigation in the Real World Using Visual Observation
This paper presents a novel end-to-end Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) navigation approach for long-range visual navigation in the real world. Inspired by dual-process visual navigation system of human's instinct: environment understanding and landmark recognition, we formulate the UAS navigation task into two same phases. Our system combines the reinforcement learning (RL) and image matching approaches. First, the agent learns the navigation policy using RL in the specified environment. To achieve this, we design an interactive UASNAV environment for the training process. Once the agent learns the navigation policy, which means 'familiarized themselves with the environment', we let the UAS fly in the real world to recognize the landmarks using image matching method and take action according to the learned policy. During the navigation process, the UAS is embedded with single camera as the only visual sensor. We demonstrate that the UAS can learn navigating to the destination hundreds meters away from the starting point with the shortest path in the real world scenario.
Self-Supervised Endoscopic Image Key-Points Matching
Feature matching and finding correspondences between endoscopic images is a key step in many clinical applications such as patient follow-up and generation of panoramic image from clinical sequences for fast anomalies localization. Nonetheless, due to the high texture variability present in endoscopic images, the development of robust and accurate feature matching becomes a challenging task. Recently, deep learning techniques which deliver learned features extracted via convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have gained traction in a wide range of computer vision tasks. However, they all follow a supervised learning scheme where a large amount of annotated data is required to reach good performances, which is generally not always available for medical data databases. To overcome this limitation related to labeled data scarcity, the self-supervised learning paradigm has recently shown great success in a number of applications. This paper proposes a novel self-supervised approach for endoscopic image matching based on deep learning techniques. When compared to standard hand-crafted local feature descriptors, our method outperformed them in terms of precision and recall. Furthermore, our self-supervised descriptor provides a competitive performance in comparison to a selection of state-of-the-art deep learning based supervised methods in terms of precision and matching score.
Equivariant Hypergraph Neural Networks
Many problems in computer vision and machine learning can be cast as learning on hypergraphs that represent higher-order relations. Recent approaches for hypergraph learning extend graph neural networks based on message passing, which is simple yet fundamentally limited in modeling long-range dependencies and expressive power. On the other hand, tensor-based equivariant neural networks enjoy maximal expressiveness, but their application has been limited in hypergraphs due to heavy computation and strict assumptions on fixed-order hyperedges. We resolve these problems and present Equivariant Hypergraph Neural Network (EHNN), the first attempt to realize maximally expressive equivariant layers for general hypergraph learning. We also present two practical realizations of our framework based on hypernetworks (EHNN-MLP) and self-attention (EHNN-Transformer), which are easy to implement and theoretically more expressive than most message passing approaches. We demonstrate their capability in a range of hypergraph learning problems, including synthetic k-edge identification, semi-supervised classification, and visual keypoint matching, and report improved performances over strong message passing baselines. Our implementation is available at https://github.com/jw9730/ehnn.
Understanding Attention for Vision-and-Language Tasks
Attention mechanism has been used as an important component across Vision-and-Language(VL) tasks in order to bridge the semantic gap between visual and textual features. While attention has been widely used in VL tasks, it has not been examined the capability of different attention alignment calculation in bridging the semantic gap between visual and textual clues. In this research, we conduct a comprehensive analysis on understanding the role of attention alignment by looking into the attention score calculation methods and check how it actually represents the visual region's and textual token's significance for the global assessment. We also analyse the conditions which attention score calculation mechanism would be more (or less) interpretable, and which may impact the model performance on three different VL tasks, including visual question answering, text-to-image generation, text-and-image matching (both sentence and image retrieval). Our analysis is the first of its kind and provides useful insights of the importance of each attention alignment score calculation when applied at the training phase of VL tasks, commonly ignored in attention-based cross modal models, and/or pretrained models. Our code is available at: https://github.com/adlnlp/Attention_VL
Hierarchical Attention Network for Few-Shot Object Detection via Meta-Contrastive Learning
Few-shot object detection (FSOD) aims to classify and detect few images of novel categories. Existing meta-learning methods insufficiently exploit features between support and query images owing to structural limitations. We propose a hierarchical attention network with sequentially large receptive fields to fully exploit the query and support images. In addition, meta-learning does not distinguish the categories well because it determines whether the support and query images match. In other words, metric-based learning for classification is ineffective because it does not work directly. Thus, we propose a contrastive learning method called meta-contrastive learning, which directly helps achieve the purpose of the meta-learning strategy. Finally, we establish a new state-of-the-art network, by realizing significant margins. Our method brings 2.3, 1.0, 1.3, 3.4 and 2.4% AP improvements for 1-30 shots object detection on COCO dataset. Our code is available at: https://github.com/infinity7428/hANMCL
Learning Modal-Invariant and Temporal-Memory for Video-based Visible-Infrared Person Re-Identification
Thanks for the cross-modal retrieval techniques, visible-infrared (RGB-IR) person re-identification (Re-ID) is achieved by projecting them into a common space, allowing person Re-ID in 24-hour surveillance systems. However, with respect to the probe-to-gallery, almost all existing RGB-IR based cross-modal person Re-ID methods focus on image-to-image matching, while the video-to-video matching which contains much richer spatial- and temporal-information remains under-explored. In this paper, we primarily study the video-based cross-modal person Re-ID method. To achieve this task, a video-based RGB-IR dataset is constructed, in which 927 valid identities with 463,259 frames and 21,863 tracklets captured by 12 RGB/IR cameras are collected. Based on our constructed dataset, we prove that with the increase of frames in a tracklet, the performance does meet more enhancement, demonstrating the significance of video-to-video matching in RGB-IR person Re-ID. Additionally, a novel method is further proposed, which not only projects two modalities to a modal-invariant subspace, but also extracts the temporal-memory for motion-invariant. Thanks to these two strategies, much better results are achieved on our video-based cross-modal person Re-ID. The code and dataset are released at: https://github.com/VCMproject233/MITML.
OmniCity: Omnipotent City Understanding with Multi-level and Multi-view Images
This paper presents OmniCity, a new dataset for omnipotent city understanding from multi-level and multi-view images. More precisely, the OmniCity contains multi-view satellite images as well as street-level panorama and mono-view images, constituting over 100K pixel-wise annotated images that are well-aligned and collected from 25K geo-locations in New York City. To alleviate the substantial pixel-wise annotation efforts, we propose an efficient street-view image annotation pipeline that leverages the existing label maps of satellite view and the transformation relations between different views (satellite, panorama, and mono-view). With the new OmniCity dataset, we provide benchmarks for a variety of tasks including building footprint extraction, height estimation, and building plane/instance/fine-grained segmentation. Compared with the existing multi-level and multi-view benchmarks, OmniCity contains a larger number of images with richer annotation types and more views, provides more benchmark results of state-of-the-art models, and introduces a novel task for fine-grained building instance segmentation on street-level panorama images. Moreover, OmniCity provides new problem settings for existing tasks, such as cross-view image matching, synthesis, segmentation, detection, etc., and facilitates the developing of new methods for large-scale city understanding, reconstruction, and simulation. The OmniCity dataset as well as the benchmarks will be available at https://city-super.github.io/omnicity.
Testing Relational Understanding in Text-Guided Image Generation
Relations are basic building blocks of human cognition. Classic and recent work suggests that many relations are early developing, and quickly perceived. Machine models that aspire to human-level perception and reasoning should reflect the ability to recognize and reason generatively about relations. We report a systematic empirical examination of a recent text-guided image generation model (DALL-E 2), using a set of 15 basic physical and social relations studied or proposed in the literature, and judgements from human participants (N = 169). Overall, we find that only ~22% of images matched basic relation prompts. Based on a quantitative examination of people's judgments, we suggest that current image generation models do not yet have a grasp of even basic relations involving simple objects and agents. We examine reasons for model successes and failures, and suggest possible improvements based on computations observed in biological intelligence.
Pose for Everything: Towards Category-Agnostic Pose Estimation
Existing works on 2D pose estimation mainly focus on a certain category, e.g. human, animal, and vehicle. However, there are lots of application scenarios that require detecting the poses/keypoints of the unseen class of objects. In this paper, we introduce the task of Category-Agnostic Pose Estimation (CAPE), which aims to create a pose estimation model capable of detecting the pose of any class of object given only a few samples with keypoint definition. To achieve this goal, we formulate the pose estimation problem as a keypoint matching problem and design a novel CAPE framework, termed POse Matching Network (POMNet). A transformer-based Keypoint Interaction Module (KIM) is proposed to capture both the interactions among different keypoints and the relationship between the support and query images. We also introduce Multi-category Pose (MP-100) dataset, which is a 2D pose dataset of 100 object categories containing over 20K instances and is well-designed for developing CAPE algorithms. Experiments show that our method outperforms other baseline approaches by a large margin. Codes and data are available at https://github.com/luminxu/Pose-for-Everything.
Explaining Deepfake Detection by Analysing Image Matching
This paper aims to interpret how deepfake detection models learn artifact features of images when just supervised by binary labels. To this end, three hypotheses from the perspective of image matching are proposed as follows. 1. Deepfake detection models indicate real/fake images based on visual concepts that are neither source-relevant nor target-relevant, that is, considering such visual concepts as artifact-relevant. 2. Besides the supervision of binary labels, deepfake detection models implicitly learn artifact-relevant visual concepts through the FST-Matching (i.e. the matching fake, source, target images) in the training set. 3. Implicitly learned artifact visual concepts through the FST-Matching in the raw training set are vulnerable to video compression. In experiments, the above hypotheses are verified among various DNNs. Furthermore, based on this understanding, we propose the FST-Matching Deepfake Detection Model to boost the performance of forgery detection on compressed videos. Experiment results show that our method achieves great performance, especially on highly-compressed (e.g. c40) videos.
Adaptive Assignment for Geometry Aware Local Feature Matching
The detector-free feature matching approaches are currently attracting great attention thanks to their excellent performance. However, these methods still struggle at large-scale and viewpoint variations, due to the geometric inconsistency resulting from the application of the mutual nearest neighbour criterion (\ie, one-to-one assignment) in patch-level matching.Accordingly, we introduce AdaMatcher, which first accomplishes the feature correlation and co-visible area estimation through an elaborate feature interaction module, then performs adaptive assignment on patch-level matching while estimating the scales between images, and finally refines the co-visible matches through scale alignment and sub-pixel regression module.Extensive experiments show that AdaMatcher outperforms solid baselines and achieves state-of-the-art results on many downstream tasks. Additionally, the adaptive assignment and sub-pixel refinement module can be used as a refinement network for other matching methods, such as SuperGlue, to boost their performance further. The code will be publicly available at https://github.com/AbyssGaze/AdaMatcher.
Semi-Supervised Keypoint Detector and Descriptor for Retinal Image Matching
For retinal image matching (RIM), we propose SuperRetina, the first end-to-end method with jointly trainable keypoint detector and descriptor. SuperRetina is trained in a novel semi-supervised manner. A small set of (nearly 100) images are incompletely labeled and used to supervise the network to detect keypoints on the vascular tree. To attack the incompleteness of manual labeling, we propose Progressive Keypoint Expansion to enrich the keypoint labels at each training epoch. By utilizing a keypoint-based improved triplet loss as its description loss, SuperRetina produces highly discriminative descriptors at full input image size. Extensive experiments on multiple real-world datasets justify the viability of SuperRetina. Even with manual labeling replaced by auto labeling and thus making the training process fully manual-annotation free, SuperRetina compares favorably against a number of strong baselines for two RIM tasks, i.e. image registration and identity verification. SuperRetina will be open source.
Virtual staining of defocused autofluorescence images of unlabeled tissue using deep neural networks
Deep learning-based virtual staining was developed to introduce image contrast to label-free tissue sections, digitally matching the histological staining, which is time-consuming, labor-intensive, and destructive to tissue. Standard virtual staining requires high autofocusing precision during the whole slide imaging of label-free tissue, which consumes a significant portion of the total imaging time and can lead to tissue photodamage. Here, we introduce a fast virtual staining framework that can stain defocused autofluorescence images of unlabeled tissue, achieving equivalent performance to virtual staining of in-focus label-free images, also saving significant imaging time by lowering the microscope's autofocusing precision. This framework incorporates a virtual-autofocusing neural network to digitally refocus the defocused images and then transforms the refocused images into virtually stained images using a successive network. These cascaded networks form a collaborative inference scheme: the virtual staining model regularizes the virtual-autofocusing network through a style loss during the training. To demonstrate the efficacy of this framework, we trained and blindly tested these networks using human lung tissue. Using 4x fewer focus points with 2x lower focusing precision, we successfully transformed the coarsely-focused autofluorescence images into high-quality virtually stained H&E images, matching the standard virtual staining framework that used finely-focused autofluorescence input images. Without sacrificing the staining quality, this framework decreases the total image acquisition time needed for virtual staining of a label-free whole-slide image (WSI) by ~32%, together with a ~89% decrease in the autofocusing time, and has the potential to eliminate the laborious and costly histochemical staining process in pathology.
3DG-STFM: 3D Geometric Guided Student-Teacher Feature Matching
We tackle the essential task of finding dense visual correspondences between a pair of images. This is a challenging problem due to various factors such as poor texture, repetitive patterns, illumination variation, and motion blur in practical scenarios. In contrast to methods that use dense correspondence ground-truths as direct supervision for local feature matching training, we train 3DG-STFM: a multi-modal matching model (Teacher) to enforce the depth consistency under 3D dense correspondence supervision and transfer the knowledge to 2D unimodal matching model (Student). Both teacher and student models consist of two transformer-based matching modules that obtain dense correspondences in a coarse-to-fine manner. The teacher model guides the student model to learn RGB-induced depth information for the matching purpose on both coarse and fine branches. We also evaluate 3DG-STFM on a model compression task. To the best of our knowledge, 3DG-STFM is the first student-teacher learning method for the local feature matching task. The experiments show that our method outperforms state-of-the-art methods on indoor and outdoor camera pose estimations, and homography estimation problems. Code is available at: https://github.com/Ryan-prime/3DG-STFM.
TopicFM: Robust and Interpretable Topic-Assisted Feature Matching
This study addresses an image-matching problem in challenging cases, such as large scene variations or textureless scenes. To gain robustness to such situations, most previous studies have attempted to encode the global contexts of a scene via graph neural networks or transformers. However, these contexts do not explicitly represent high-level contextual information, such as structural shapes or semantic instances; therefore, the encoded features are still not sufficiently discriminative in challenging scenes. We propose a novel image-matching method that applies a topic-modeling strategy to encode high-level contexts in images. The proposed method trains latent semantic instances called topics. It explicitly models an image as a multinomial distribution of topics, and then performs probabilistic feature matching. This approach improves the robustness of matching by focusing on the same semantic areas between the images. In addition, the inferred topics provide interpretability for matching the results, making our method explainable. Extensive experiments on outdoor and indoor datasets show that our method outperforms other state-of-the-art methods, particularly in challenging cases. The code is available at https://github.com/TruongKhang/TopicFM.
Motion Estimation for Large Displacements and Deformations
Large displacement optical flow is an integral part of many computer vision tasks. Variational optical flow techniques based on a coarse-to-fine scheme interpolate sparse matches and locally optimize an energy model conditioned on colour, gradient and smoothness, making them sensitive to noise in the sparse matches, deformations, and arbitrarily large displacements. This paper addresses this problem and presents HybridFlow, a variational motion estimation framework for large displacements and deformations. A multi-scale hybrid matching approach is performed on the image pairs. Coarse-scale clusters formed by classifying pixels according to their feature descriptors are matched using the clusters' context descriptors. We apply a multi-scale graph matching on the finer-scale superpixels contained within each matched pair of coarse-scale clusters. Small clusters that cannot be further subdivided are matched using localized feature matching. Together, these initial matches form the flow, which is propagated by an edge-preserving interpolation and variational refinement. Our approach does not require training and is robust to substantial displacements and rigid and non-rigid transformations due to motion in the scene, making it ideal for large-scale imagery such as Wide-Area Motion Imagery (WAMI). More notably, HybridFlow works on directed graphs of arbitrary topology representing perceptual groups, which improves motion estimation in the presence of significant deformations. We demonstrate HybridFlow's superior performance to state-of-the-art variational techniques on two benchmark datasets and report comparable results with state-of-the-art deep-learning-based techniques.
Virtual Correspondence: Humans as a Cue for Extreme-View Geometry
Recovering the spatial layout of the cameras and the geometry of the scene from extreme-view images is a longstanding challenge in computer vision. Prevailing 3D reconstruction algorithms often adopt the image matching paradigm and presume that a portion of the scene is co-visible across images, yielding poor performance when there is little overlap among inputs. In contrast, humans can associate visible parts in one image to the corresponding invisible components in another image via prior knowledge of the shapes. Inspired by this fact, we present a novel concept called virtual correspondences (VCs). VCs are a pair of pixels from two images whose camera rays intersect in 3D. Similar to classic correspondences, VCs conform with epipolar geometry; unlike classic correspondences, VCs do not need to be co-visible across views. Therefore VCs can be established and exploited even if images do not overlap. We introduce a method to find virtual correspondences based on humans in the scene. We showcase how VCs can be seamlessly integrated with classic bundle adjustment to recover camera poses across extreme views. Experiments show that our method significantly outperforms state-of-the-art camera pose estimation methods in challenging scenarios and is comparable in the traditional densely captured setup. Our approach also unleashes the potential of multiple downstream tasks such as scene reconstruction from multi-view stereo and novel view synthesis in extreme-view scenarios.
Self-Supervised Learning of Image Scale and Orientation
We study the problem of learning to assign a characteristic pose, i.e., scale and orientation, for an image region of interest. Despite its apparent simplicity, the problem is non-trivial; it is hard to obtain a large-scale set of image regions with explicit pose annotations that a model directly learns from. To tackle the issue, we propose a self-supervised learning framework with a histogram alignment technique. It generates pairs of image patches by random rescaling/rotating and then train an estimator to predict their scale/orientation values so that their relative difference is consistent with the rescaling/rotating used. The estimator learns to predict a non-parametric histogram distribution of scale/orientation without any supervision. Experiments show that it significantly outperforms previous methods in scale/orientation estimation and also improves image matching and 6 DoF camera pose estimation by incorporating our patch poses into a matching process.
E2PN: Efficient SE(3)-Equivariant Point Network
This paper proposes a convolution structure for learning SE(3)-equivariant features from 3D point clouds. It can be viewed as an equivariant version of kernel point convolutions (KPConv), a widely used convolution form to process point cloud data. Compared with existing equivariant networks, our design is simple, lightweight, fast, and easy to be integrated with existing task-specific point cloud learning pipelines. We achieve these desirable properties by combining group convolutions and quotient representations. Specifically, we discretize SO(3) to finite groups for their simplicity while using SO(2) as the stabilizer subgroup to form spherical quotient feature fields to save computations. We also propose a permutation layer to recover SO(3) features from spherical features to preserve the capacity to distinguish rotations. Experiments show that our method achieves comparable or superior performance in various tasks, including object classification, pose estimation, and keypoint-matching, while consuming much less memory and running faster than existing work. The proposed method can foster the development of equivariant models for real-world applications based on point clouds.
WT-MVSNet: Window-based Transformers for Multi-view Stereo
Recently, Transformers were shown to enhance the performance of multi-view stereo by enabling long-range feature interaction. In this work, we propose Window-based Transformers (WT) for local feature matching and global feature aggregation in multi-view stereo. We introduce a Window-based Epipolar Transformer (WET) which reduces matching redundancy by using epipolar constraints. Since point-to-line matching is sensitive to erroneous camera pose and calibration, we match windows near the epipolar lines. A second Shifted WT is employed for aggregating global information within cost volume. We present a novel Cost Transformer (CT) to replace 3D convolutions for cost volume regularization. In order to better constrain the estimated depth maps from multiple views, we further design a novel geometric consistency loss (Geo Loss) which punishes unreliable areas where multi-view consistency is not satisfied. Our WT multi-view stereo method (WT-MVSNet) achieves state-of-the-art performance across multiple datasets and ranks $1^{st}$ on Tanks and Temples benchmark.
Image Keypoint Matching using Graph Neural Networks
Image matching is a key component of many tasks in computer vision and its main objective is to find correspondences between features extracted from different natural images. When images are represented as graphs, image matching boils down to the problem of graph matching which has been studied intensively in the past. In recent years, graph neural networks have shown great potential in the graph matching task, and have also been applied to image matching. In this paper, we propose a graph neural network for the problem of image matching. The proposed method first generates initial soft correspondences between keypoints using localized node embeddings and then iteratively refines the initial correspondences using a series of graph neural network layers. We evaluate our method on natural image datasets with keypoint annotations and show that, in comparison to a state-of-the-art model, our method speeds up inference times without sacrificing prediction accuracy.
Fine-tuning deep learning models for stereo matching using results from semi-global matching
Deep learning (DL) methods are widely investigated for stereo image matching tasks due to their reported high accuracies. However, their transferability/generalization capabilities are limited by the instances seen in the training data. With satellite images covering large-scale areas with variances in locations, content, land covers, and spatial patterns, we expect their performances to be impacted. Increasing the number and diversity of training data is always an option, but with the ground-truth disparity being limited in remote sensing due to its high cost, it is almost impossible to obtain the ground-truth for all locations. Knowing that classical stereo matching methods such as Census-based semi-global-matching (SGM) are widely adopted to process different types of stereo data, we therefore, propose a finetuning method that takes advantage of disparity maps derived from SGM on target stereo data. Our proposed method adopts a simple scheme that uses the energy map derived from the SGM algorithm to select high confidence disparity measurements, at the same utilizing the images to limit these selected disparity measurements on texture-rich regions. Our approach aims to investigate the possibility of improving the transferability of current DL methods to unseen target data without having their ground truth as a requirement. To perform a comprehensive study, we select 20 study-sites around the world to cover a variety of complexities and densities. We choose well-established DL methods like geometric and context network (GCNet), pyramid stereo matching network (PSMNet), and LEAStereo for evaluation. Our results indicate an improvement in the transferability of the DL methods across different regions visually and numerically.
Deep Dense Local Feature Matching and Vehicle Removal for Indoor Visual Localization
Visual localization is an essential component of intelligent transportation systems, enabling broad applications that require understanding one's self location when other sensors are not available. It is mostly tackled by image retrieval such that the location of a query image is determined by its closest match in the previously collected images. Existing approaches focus on large scale localization where landmarks are helpful in finding the location. However, visual localization becomes challenging in small scale environments where objects are hardly recognizable. In this paper, we propose a visual localization framework that robustly finds the match for a query among the images collected from indoor parking lots. It is a challenging problem when the vehicles in the images share similar appearances and are frequently replaced such as parking lots. We propose to employ a deep dense local feature matching that resembles human perception to find correspondences and eliminating matches from vehicles automatically with a vehicle detector. The proposed solution is robust to the scenes with low textures and invariant to false matches caused by vehicles. We compare our framework with alternatives to validate our superiority on a benchmark dataset containing 267 pre-collected images and 99 query images taken from 34 sections of a parking lot. Our method achieves 86.9 percent accuracy, outperforming the alternatives.
TransforMatcher: Match-to-Match Attention for Semantic Correspondence
Establishing correspondences between images remains a challenging task, especially under large appearance changes due to different viewpoints or intra-class variations. In this work, we introduce a strong semantic image matching learner, dubbed TransforMatcher, which builds on the success of transformer networks in vision domains. Unlike existing convolution- or attention-based schemes for correspondence, TransforMatcher performs global match-to-match attention for precise match localization and dynamic refinement. To handle a large number of matches in a dense correlation map, we develop a light-weight attention architecture to consider the global match-to-match interactions. We also propose to utilize a multi-channel correlation map for refinement, treating the multi-level scores as features instead of a single score to fully exploit the richer layer-wise semantics. In experiments, TransforMatcher sets a new state of the art on SPair-71k while performing on par with existing SOTA methods on the PF-PASCAL dataset.
ReDFeat: Recoupling Detection and Description for Multimodal Feature Learning
Deep-learning-based local feature extraction algorithms that combine detection and description have made significant progress in visible image matching. However, the end-to-end training of such frameworks is notoriously unstable due to the lack of strong supervision of detection and the inappropriate coupling between detection and description. The problem is magnified in cross-modal scenarios, in which most methods heavily rely on the pre-training. In this paper, we recouple independent constraints of detection and description of multimodal feature learning with a mutual weighting strategy, in which the detected probabilities of robust features are forced to peak and repeat, while features with high detection scores are emphasized during optimization. Different from previous works, those weights are detached from back propagation so that the detected probability of indistinct features would not be directly suppressed and the training would be more stable. Moreover, we propose the Super Detector, a detector that possesses a large receptive field and is equipped with learnable non-maximum suppression layers, to fulfill the harsh terms of detection. Finally, we build a benchmark that contains cross visible, infrared, near-infrared and synthetic aperture radar image pairs for evaluating the performance of features in feature matching and image registration tasks. Extensive experiments demonstrate that features trained with the recoulped detection and description, named ReDFeat, surpass previous state-of-the-arts in the benchmark, while the model can be readily trained from scratch.
BDIS: Bayesian Dense Inverse Searching Method for Real-Time Stereo Surgical Image Matching
In stereoscope-based Minimally Invasive Surgeries (MIS), dense stereo matching plays an indispensable role in 3D shape recovery, AR, VR, and navigation tasks. Although numerous Deep Neural Network (DNN) approaches are proposed, the conventional prior-free approaches are still popular in the industry because of the lack of open-source annotated data set and the limitation of the task-specific pre-trained DNNs. Among the prior-free stereo matching algorithms, there is no successful real-time algorithm in none GPU environment for MIS. This paper proposes the first CPU-level real-time prior-free stereo matching algorithm for general MIS tasks. We achieve an average 17 Hz on 640*480 images with a single-core CPU (i5-9400) for surgical images. Meanwhile, it achieves slightly better accuracy than the popular ELAS. The patch-based fast disparity searching algorithm is adopted for the rectified stereo images. A coarse-to-fine Bayesian probability and a spatial Gaussian mixed model were proposed to evaluate the patch probability at different scales. An optional probability density function estimation algorithm was adopted to quantify the prediction variance. Extensive experiments demonstrated the proposed method's capability to handle ambiguities introduced by the textureless surfaces and the photometric inconsistency from the non-Lambertian reflectance and dark illumination. The estimated probability managed to balance the confidences of the patches for stereo images at different scales. It has similar or higher accuracy and fewer outliers than the baseline ELAS in MIS, while it is 4-5 times faster. The code and the synthetic data sets are available at https://github.com/JingweiSong/BDIS-v2.
AdaTriplet: Adaptive Gradient Triplet Loss with Automatic Margin Learning for Forensic Medical Image Matching
This paper tackles the challenge of forensic medical image matching (FMIM) using deep neural networks (DNNs). FMIM is a particular case of content-based image retrieval (CBIR). The main challenge in FMIM compared to the general case of CBIR, is that the subject to whom a query image belongs may be affected by aging and progressive degenerative disorders, making it difficult to match data on a subject level. CBIR with DNNs is generally solved by minimizing a ranking loss, such as Triplet loss (TL), computed on image representations extracted by a DNN from the original data. TL, in particular, operates on triplets: anchor, positive (similar to anchor) and negative (dissimilar to anchor). Although TL has been shown to perform well in many CBIR tasks, it still has limitations, which we identify and analyze in this work. In this paper, we introduce (i) the AdaTriplet loss -- an extension of TL whose gradients adapt to different difficulty levels of negative samples, and (ii) the AutoMargin method -- a technique to adjust hyperparameters of margin-based losses such as TL and our proposed loss dynamically. Our results are evaluated on two large-scale benchmarks for FMIM based on the Osteoarthritis Initiative and Chest X-ray-14 datasets. The codes allowing replication of this study have been made publicly available at \url{https://github.com/Oulu-IMEDS/AdaTriplet}.
Gleo-Det: Deep Convolution Feature-Guided Detector with Local Entropy Optimization for Salient Points
Feature detection is an important procedure for image matching, where unsupervised feature detection methods are the detection approaches that have been mostly studied recently, including the ones that are based on repeatability requirement to define loss functions, and the ones that attempt to use descriptor matching to drive the optimization of the pipelines. For the former type, mean square error (MSE) is usually used which cannot provide strong constraint for training and can make the model easy to be stuck into the collapsed solution. For the later one, due to the down sampling operation and the expansion of receptive fields, the details can be lost for local descriptors can be lost, making the constraint not fine enough. Considering the issues above, we propose to combine both ideas, which including three aspects. 1) We propose to achieve fine constraint based on the requirement of repeatability while coarse constraint with guidance of deep convolution features. 2) To address the issue that optimization with MSE is limited, entropy-based cost function is utilized, both soft cross-entropy and self-information. 3) With the guidance of convolution features, we define the cost function from both positive and negative sides. Finally, we study the effect of each modification proposed and experiments demonstrate that our method achieves competitive results over the state-of-the-art approaches.
SUES-200: A Multi-height Multi-scene Cross-view Image Benchmark Across Drone and Satellite
Cross-view image matching aims to match images of the same target scene acquired from different platforms. With the rapid development of drone technology, cross-view matching by neural network models has been a widely accepted choice for drone position or navigation. However, existing public datasets do not include images obtained by drones at different heights, and the types of scenes are relatively homogeneous, which yields issues in assessing a model's capability to adapt to complex and changing scenes. In this end, we present a new cross-view dataset called SUES-200 to address these issues. SUES-200 contains 24120 images acquired by the drone at four different heights and corresponding satellite view images of the same target scene. To the best of our knowledge, SUES-200 is the first public dataset that considers the differences generated in aerial photography captured by drones flying at different heights. In addition, we developed an evaluation for efficient training, testing and evaluation of cross-view matching models, under which we comprehensively analyze the performance of nine architectures. Then, we propose a robust baseline model for use with SUES-200. Experimental results show that SUES-200 can help the model to learn highly discriminative features of the height of the drone.
Uncertainty-based Cross-Modal Retrieval with Probabilistic Representations
Probabilistic embeddings have proven useful for capturing polysemous word meanings, as well as ambiguity in image matching. In this paper, we study the advantages of probabilistic embeddings in a cross-modal setting (i.e., text and images), and propose a simple approach that replaces the standard vector point embeddings in extant image-text matching models with probabilistic distributions that are parametrically learned. Our guiding hypothesis is that the uncertainty encoded in the probabilistic embeddings captures the cross-modal ambiguity in the input instances, and that it is through capturing this uncertainty that the probabilistic models can perform better at downstream tasks, such as image-to-text or text-to-image retrieval. Through extensive experiments on standard and new benchmarks, we show a consistent advantage for probabilistic representations in cross-modal retrieval, and validate the ability of our embeddings to capture uncertainty.
OpenGlue: Open Source Graph Neural Net Based Pipeline for Image Matching
We present OpenGlue: a free open-source framework for image matching, that uses a Graph Neural Network-based matcher inspired by SuperGlue \cite{sarlin20superglue}. We show that including additional geometrical information, such as local feature scale, orientation, and affine geometry, when available (e.g. for SIFT features), significantly improves the performance of the OpenGlue matcher. We study the influence of the various attention mechanisms on accuracy and speed. We also present a simple architectural improvement by combining local descriptors with context-aware descriptors. The code and pretrained OpenGlue models for the different local features are publicly available.
Self-Supervised Equivariant Learning for Oriented Keypoint Detection
Detecting robust keypoints from an image is an integral part of many computer vision problems, and the characteristic orientation and scale of keypoints play an important role for keypoint description and matching. Existing learning-based methods for keypoint detection rely on standard translation-equivariant CNNs but often fail to detect reliable keypoints against geometric variations. To learn to detect robust oriented keypoints, we introduce a self-supervised learning framework using rotation-equivariant CNNs. We propose a dense orientation alignment loss by an image pair generated by synthetic transformations for training a histogram-based orientation map. Our method outperforms the previous methods on an image matching benchmark and a camera pose estimation benchmark.
Efficient Linear Attention for Fast and Accurate Keypoint Matching
Recently Transformers have provided state-of-the-art performance in sparse matching, crucial to realize high-performance 3D vision applications. Yet, these Transformers lack efficiency due to the quadratic computational complexity of their attention mechanism. To solve this problem, we employ an efficient linear attention for the linear computational complexity. Then, we propose a new attentional aggregation that achieves high accuracy by aggregating both the global and local information from sparse keypoints. To further improve the efficiency, we propose the joint learning of feature matching and description. Our learning enables simpler and faster matching than Sinkhorn, often used in matching the learned descriptors from Transformers. Our method achieves competitive performance with only 0.84M learnable parameters against the bigger SOTAs, SuperGlue (12M parameters) and SGMNet (30M parameters), on three benchmarks, HPatch, ETH, and Aachen Day-Night.
Lightweight starshade position sensing with convolutional neural networks and simulation-based inference
Starshades are a leading technology to enable the direct detection and spectroscopic characterization of Earth-like exoplanets. To keep the starshade and telescope aligned over large separations, reliable sensing of the peak of the diffracted light of the occluded star is required. Current techniques rely on image matching or model fitting, both of which put substantial computational burdens on resource-limited spacecraft computers. We present a lightweight image processing method based on a convolutional neural network paired with a simulation-based inference technique to estimate the position of the spot of Arago and its uncertainty. The method achieves an accuracy of a few centimeters across the entire pupil plane, while only requiring 1.6 MB in stored data structures and 5.3 MFLOPs (million floating point operations) per image at test time. By deploying our method at the Princeton Starshade Testbed, we demonstrate that the neural network can be trained on simulated images and used on real images, and that it can successfully be integrated in the control system for closed-loop formation flying.
AmsterTime: A Visual Place Recognition Benchmark Dataset for Severe Domain Shift
We introduce AmsterTime: a challenging dataset to benchmark visual place recognition (VPR) in presence of a severe domain shift. AmsterTime offers a collection of 2,500 well-curated images matching the same scene from a street view matched to historical archival image data from Amsterdam city. The image pairs capture the same place with different cameras, viewpoints, and appearances. Unlike existing benchmark datasets, AmsterTime is directly crowdsourced in a GIS navigation platform (Mapillary). We evaluate various baselines, including non-learning, supervised and self-supervised methods, pre-trained on different relevant datasets, for both verification and retrieval tasks. Our result credits the best accuracy to the ResNet-101 model pre-trained on the Landmarks dataset for both verification and retrieval tasks by 84% and 24%, respectively. Additionally, a subset of Amsterdam landmarks is collected for feature evaluation in a classification task. Classification labels are further used to extract the visual explanations using Grad-CAM for inspection of the learned similar visuals in a deep metric learning models.
Photographic Visualization of Weather Forecasts with Generative Adversarial Networks
Outdoor webcam images are an information-dense yet accessible visualization of past and present weather conditions, and are consulted by meteorologists and the general public alike. Weather forecasts, however, are still communicated as text, pictograms or charts. We therefore introduce a novel method that uses photographic images to also visualize future weather conditions.   This is challenging, because photographic visualizations of weather forecasts should look real, be free of obvious artifacts, and should match the predicted weather conditions. The transition from observation to forecast should be seamless, and there should be visual continuity between images for consecutive lead times. We use conditional Generative Adversarial Networks to synthesize such visualizations. The generator network, conditioned on the analysis and the forecasting state of the numerical weather prediction (NWP) model, transforms the present camera image into the future. The discriminator network judges whether a given image is the real image of the future, or whether it has been synthesized. Training the two networks against each other results in a visualization method that scores well on all four evaluation criteria.   We present results for three camera sites across Switzerland that differ in climatology and terrain. We show that users find it challenging to distinguish real from generated images, performing not much better than if they guessed randomly. The generated images match the atmospheric, ground and illumination conditions of the COSMO-1 NWP model forecast in at least 89 % of the examined cases. Nowcasting sequences of generated images achieve a seamless transition from observation to forecast and attain visual continuity.
Sparse Image based Navigation Architecture to Mitigate the need of precise Localization in Mobile Robots
Traditional simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) methods focus on improvement in the robot's localization under environment and sensor uncertainty. This paper, however, focuses on mitigating the need for exact localization of a mobile robot to pursue autonomous navigation using a sparse set of images. The proposed method consists of a model architecture - RoomNet, for unsupervised learning resulting in a coarse identification of the environment and a separate local navigation policy for local identification and navigation. The former learns and predicts the scene based on the short term image sequences seen by the robot along with the transition image scenarios using long term image sequences. The latter uses sparse image matching to characterise the similarity of frames achieved vis-a-vis the frames viewed by the robot during the mapping and training stage. A sparse graph of the image sequence is created which is then used to carry out robust navigation purely on the basis of visual goals. The proposed approach is evaluated on two robots in a test environment and demonstrates the ability to navigate in dynamic environments where landmarks are obscured and classical localization methods fail.
Optimizing Elimination Templates by Greedy Parameter Search
We propose a new method for constructing elimination templates for efficient polynomial system solving of minimal problems in structure from motion, image matching, and camera tracking. We first construct a particular affine parameterization of the elimination templates for systems with a finite number of distinct solutions. Then, we use a heuristic greedy optimization strategy over the space of parameters to get a template with a small size. We test our method on 34 minimal problems in computer vision. For all of them, we found the templates either of the same or smaller size compared to the state-of-the-art. For some difficult examples, our templates are, e.g., 2.1, 2.5, 3.8, 6.6 times smaller. For the problem of refractive absolute pose estimation with unknown focal length, we have found a template that is 20 times smaller. Our experiments on synthetic data also show that the new solvers are fast and numerically accurate. We also present a fast and numerically accurate solver for the problem of relative pose estimation with unknown common focal length and radial distortion.
S2-Net: Self-supervision Guided Feature Representation Learning for Cross-Modality Images
Combining the respective advantages of cross-modality images can compensate for the lack of information in the single modality, which has attracted increasing attention of researchers into multi-modal image matching tasks. Meanwhile, due to the great appearance differences between cross-modality image pairs, it often fails to make the feature representations of correspondences as close as possible. In this letter, we design a cross-modality feature representation learning network, S2-Net, which is based on the recently successful detect-and-describe pipeline, originally proposed for visible images but adapted to work with cross-modality image pairs. To solve the consequent problem of optimization difficulties, we introduce self-supervised learning with a well-designed loss function to guide the training without discarding the original advantages. This novel strategy simulates image pairs in the same modality, which is also a useful guide for the training of cross-modality images. Notably, it does not require additional data but significantly improves the performance and is even workable for all methods of the detect-and-describe pipeline. Extensive experiments are conducted to evaluate the performance of the strategy we proposed, compared to both handcrafted and deep learning-based methods. Results show that our elegant formulation of combined optimization of supervised and self-supervised learning outperforms state-of-the-arts on RoadScene and RGB-NIR datasets.
Accurate 3-DoF Camera Geo-Localization via Ground-to-Satellite Image Matching
We address the problem of ground-to-satellite image geo-localization, that is, estimating the camera latitude, longitude and orientation (azimuth angle) by matching a query image captured at the ground level against a large-scale database with geotagged satellite images. Our prior arts treat the above task as pure image retrieval by selecting the most similar satellite reference image matching the ground-level query image. However, such an approach often produces coarse location estimates because the geotag of the retrieved satellite image only corresponds to the image center while the ground camera can be located at any point within the image. To further consolidate our prior research findings, we present a novel geometry-aware geo-localization method. Our new method is able to achieve the fine-grained location of a query image, up to pixel size precision of the satellite image, once its coarse location and orientation have been determined. Moreover, we propose a new geometry-aware image retrieval pipeline to improve the coarse localization accuracy. Apart from a polar transform in our conference work, this new pipeline also maps satellite image pixels to the ground-level plane in the ground-view via a geometry-constrained projective transform to emphasize informative regions, such as road structures, for cross-view geo-localization. Extensive quantitative and qualitative experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our newly proposed framework. We also significantly improve the performance of coarse localization results compared to the state-of-the-art in terms of location recalls.
Keypoints Tracking via Transformer Networks
In this thesis, we propose a pioneering work on sparse keypoints tracking across images using transformer networks. While deep learning-based keypoints matching have been widely investigated using graph neural networks - and more recently transformer networks, they remain relatively too slow to operate in real-time and are particularly sensitive to the poor repeatability of the keypoints detectors. In order to address these shortcomings, we propose to study the particular case of real-time and robust keypoints tracking. Specifically, we propose a novel architecture which ensures a fast and robust estimation of the keypoints tracking between successive images of a video sequence. Our method takes advantage of a recent breakthrough in computer vision, namely, visual transformer networks. Our method consists of two successive stages, a coarse matching followed by a fine localization of the keypoints' correspondences prediction. Through various experiments, we demonstrate that our approach achieves competitive results and demonstrates high robustness against adverse conditions, such as illumination change, occlusion and viewpoint differences.
MatchFormer: Interleaving Attention in Transformers for Feature Matching
Local feature matching is a computationally intensive task at the subpixel level. While detector-based methods coupled with feature descriptors struggle in low-texture scenes, CNN-based methods with a sequential extract-to-match pipeline, fail to make use of the matching capacity of the encoder and tend to overburden the decoder for matching. In contrast, we propose a novel hierarchical extract-and-match transformer, termed as MatchFormer. Inside each stage of the hierarchical encoder, we interleave self-attention for feature extraction and cross-attention for feature matching, yielding a human-intuitive extract-and-match scheme. Such a match-aware encoder releases the overloaded decoder and makes the model highly efficient. Further, combining self- and cross-attention on multi-scale features in a hierarchical architecture improves matching robustness, particularly in low-texture indoor scenes or with less outdoor training data. Thanks to such a strategy, MatchFormer is a multi-win solution in efficiency, robustness, and precision. Compared to the previous best method in indoor pose estimation, our lite MatchFormer has only 45% GFLOPs, yet achieves a +1.3% precision gain and a 41% running speed boost. The large MatchFormer reaches state-of-the-art on four different benchmarks, including indoor pose estimation (ScanNet), outdoor pose estimation (MegaDepth), homography estimation and image matching (HPatch), and visual localization (InLoc).
What's the Difference? The potential for Convolutional Neural Networks for transient detection without template subtraction
We present a study of the potential for Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) to enable separation of astrophysical transients from image artifacts, a task known as "real-bogus" classification without requiring a template subtracted (or difference) image which requires a computationally expensive process to generate, involving image matching on small spatial scales in large volumes of data. Using data from the Dark Energy Survey, we explore the use of CNNs to (1) automate the "real-bogus" classification, (2) reduce the computational costs of transient discovery. We compare the efficiency of two CNNs with similar architectures, one that uses "image triplets" (templates, search, and difference image) and one that takes as input the template and search only. We measure the decrease in efficiency associated with the loss of information in input finding that the testing accuracy is reduced from 96% to 91.1%. We further investigate how the latter model learns the required information from the template and search by exploring the saliency maps. Our work (1) confirms that CNNs are excellent models for "real-bogus" classification that rely exclusively on the imaging data and require no feature engineering task; (2) demonstrates that high-accuracy (> 90%) models can be built without the need to construct difference images, but some accuracy is lost. Since once trained, neural networks can generate predictions at minimal computational costs, we argue that future implementations of this methodology could dramatically reduce the computational costs in the detection of transients in synoptic surveys like Rubin Observatory's Legacy Survey of Space and Time by bypassing the Difference Image Analysis entirely.
ReF -- Rotation Equivariant Features for Local Feature Matching
Sparse local feature matching is pivotal for many computer vision and robotics tasks. To improve their invariance to challenging appearance conditions and viewing angles, and hence their usefulness, existing learning-based methods have primarily focused on data augmentation-based training. In this work, we propose an alternative, complementary approach that centers on inducing bias in the model architecture itself to generate `rotation-specific' features using Steerable E2-CNNs, that are then group-pooled to achieve rotation-invariant local features. We demonstrate that this high performance, rotation-specific coverage from the steerable CNNs can be expanded to all rotation angles by combining it with augmentation-trained standard CNNs which have broader coverage but are often inaccurate, thus creating a state-of-the-art rotation-robust local feature matcher. We benchmark our proposed methods against existing techniques on HPatches and a newly proposed UrbanScenes3D-Air dataset for visual place recognition. Furthermore, we present a detailed analysis of the performance effects of ensembling, robust estimation, network architecture variations, and the use of rotation priors.
Cross Language Image Matching for Weakly Supervised Semantic Segmentation
It has been widely known that CAM (Class Activation Map) usually only activates discriminative object regions and falsely includes lots of object-related backgrounds. As only a fixed set of image-level object labels are available to the WSSS (weakly supervised semantic segmentation) model, it could be very difficult to suppress those diverse background regions consisting of open set objects. In this paper, we propose a novel Cross Language Image Matching (CLIMS) framework, based on the recently introduced Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP) model, for WSSS. The core idea of our framework is to introduce natural language supervision to activate more complete object regions and suppress closely-related open background regions. In particular, we design object, background region and text label matching losses to guide the model to excite more reasonable object regions for CAM of each category. In addition, we design a co-occurring background suppression loss to prevent the model from activating closely-related background regions, with a predefined set of class-related background text descriptions. These designs enable the proposed CLIMS to generate a more complete and compact activation map for the target objects. Extensive experiments on PASCAL VOC2012 dataset show that our CLIMS significantly outperforms the previous state-of-the-art methods.
CLIP-GEN: Language-Free Training of a Text-to-Image Generator with CLIP
Training a text-to-image generator in the general domain (e.g., Dall.e, CogView) requires huge amounts of paired text-image data, which is too expensive to collect. In this paper, we propose a self-supervised scheme named as CLIP-GEN for general text-to-image generation with the language-image priors extracted with a pre-trained CLIP model. In our approach, we only require a set of unlabeled images in the general domain to train a text-to-image generator. Specifically, given an image without text labels, we first extract the embedding of the image in the united language-vision embedding space with the image encoder of CLIP. Next, we convert the image into a sequence of discrete tokens in the VQGAN codebook space (the VQGAN model can be trained with the unlabeled image dataset in hand). Finally, we train an autoregressive transformer that maps the image tokens from its unified language-vision representation. Once trained, the transformer can generate coherent image tokens based on the text embedding extracted from the text encoder of CLIP upon an input text. Such a strategy enables us to train a strong and general text-to-image generator with large text-free image dataset such as ImageNet. Qualitative and quantitative evaluations verify that our method significantly outperforms optimization-based text-to-image methods in terms of image quality while not compromising the text-image matching. Our method can even achieve comparable performance as flagship supervised models like CogView.
Time-resolved Imaging of Stochastic Cascade Reactions over a Submillisecond to Second Time Range at the Angstrom Level
Most chemical reactions are cascade reactions in which a series of transient intermediates appear and disappear stochastically over an extended period. The mechanisms of such reactions are challenging to study, even in ultrafast pump-probe experiments. The dimerization of a van der Waals dimer of [60]fullerene producing a short carbon nanotube is a typical cascade reaction and is probably the most frequently studied in carbon materials chemistry. As many as 23 intermediates were predicted by theory, but only the first stable one has been verified experimentally. With the aid of fast electron microscopy, we obtained cinematographic recordings of individual molecules at a maximum frame rate of 1600 frames per second. Using Chambolle total variation algorithm processing and automated cross-correlation image matching analysis, we report on the identification of several metastable intermediates by their shape and size. Although the reaction events occurred stochastically, varying the lifetime of each intermediate accordingly, the average lifetime for each intermediate structure could be obtained from statistical analysis of many cinematographic images for the cascade reaction. Among the shortest-living intermediates, we detected one that lasted for less than 3 ms in three independent cascade reactions. We anticipate that the rapid technological development of microscopy and image processing will soon initiate an era of cinematographic studies of chemical reactions.
Guide Local Feature Matching by Overlap Estimation
Local image feature matching under large appearance, viewpoint, and distance changes is challenging yet important. Conventional methods detect and match tentative local features across the whole images, with heuristic consistency checks to guarantee reliable matches. In this paper, we introduce a novel Overlap Estimation method conditioned on image pairs with TRansformer, named OETR, to constrain local feature matching in the commonly visible region. OETR performs overlap estimation in a two-step process of feature correlation and then overlap regression. As a preprocessing module, OETR can be plugged into any existing local feature detection and matching pipeline, to mitigate potential view angle or scale variance. Intensive experiments show that OETR can boost state-of-the-art local feature matching performance substantially, especially for image pairs with small shared regions. The code will be publicly available at https://github.com/AbyssGaze/OETR.
Cross-view and Cross-domain Underwater Localization based on Optical Aerial and Acoustic Underwater Images
Cross-view image matches have been widely explored on terrestrial image localization using aerial images from drones or satellites. This study expands the cross-view image match idea and proposes a cross-domain and cross-view localization framework. The method identifies the correlation between color aerial images and underwater acoustic images to improve the localization of underwater vehicles that travel in partially structured environments such as harbors and marinas. The approach is validated on a real dataset acquired by an underwater vehicle in a marina. The results show an improvement in the localization when compared to the dead reckoning of the vehicle.
CATs++: Boosting Cost Aggregation with Convolutions and Transformers
Cost aggregation is a highly important process in image matching tasks, which aims to disambiguate the noisy matching scores. Existing methods generally tackle this by hand-crafted or CNN-based methods, which either lack robustness to severe deformations or inherit the limitation of CNNs that fail to discriminate incorrect matches due to limited receptive fields and inadaptability. In this paper, we introduce Cost Aggregation with Transformers (CATs) to tackle this by exploring global consensus among initial correlation map with the help of some architectural designs that allow us to fully enjoy global receptive fields of self-attention mechanism. Also, to alleviate some of the limitations that CATs may face, i.e., high computational costs induced by the use of a standard transformer that its complexity grows with the size of spatial and feature dimensions, which restrict its applicability only at limited resolution and result in rather limited performance, we propose CATs++, an extension of CATs. Our proposed methods outperform the previous state-of-the-art methods by large margins, setting a new state-of-the-art for all the benchmarks, including PF-WILLOW, PF-PASCAL, and SPair-71k. We further provide extensive ablation studies and analyses.
Improving Image-recognition Edge Caches with a Generative Adversarial Network
Image recognition is an essential task in several mobile applications. For instance, a smartphone can process a landmark photo to gather more information about its location. If the device does not have enough computational resources available, it offloads the processing task to a cloud infrastructure. Although this approach solves resource shortages, it introduces a communication delay. Image-recognition caches on the Internet's edge can mitigate this problem. These caches run on servers close to mobile devices and stores information about previously recognized images. If the server receives a request with a photo stored in its cache, it replies to the device, avoiding cloud offloading. The main challenge for this cache is to verify if the received image matches a stored one. Furthermore, for outdoor photos, it is difficult to compare them if one was taken in the daytime and the other at nighttime. In that case, the cache might wrongly infer that they refer to different places, offloading the processing to the cloud. This work shows that a well-known generative adversarial network, called ToDayGAN, can solve this problem by generating daytime images using nighttime ones. We can thus use this translation to populate a cache with synthetic photos that can help image matching. We show that our solution reduces cloud offloading and, therefore, the application's latency.
Object-Guided Day-Night Visual Localization in Urban Scenes
We introduce Object-Guided Localization (OGuL) based on a novel method of local-feature matching. Direct matching of local features is sensitive to significant changes in illumination. In contrast, object detection often survives severe changes in lighting conditions. The proposed method first detects semantic objects and establishes correspondences of those objects between images. Object correspondences provide local coarse alignment of the images in the form of a planar homography. These homographies are consequently used to guide the matching of local features. Experiments on standard urban localization datasets (Aachen, Extended-CMU-Season, RobotCar-Season) show that OGuL significantly improves localization results with as simple local features as SIFT, and its performance competes with the state-of-the-art CNN-based methods trained for day-to-night localization.
Learning Optical Flow with Adaptive Graph Reasoning
Estimating per-pixel motion between video frames, known as optical flow, is a long-standing problem in video understanding and analysis. Most contemporary optical flow techniques largely focus on addressing the cross-image matching with feature similarity, with few methods considering how to explicitly reason over the given scene for achieving a holistic motion understanding. In this work, taking a fresh perspective, we introduce a novel graph-based approach, called adaptive graph reasoning for optical flow (AGFlow), to emphasize the value of scene/context information in optical flow. Our key idea is to decouple the context reasoning from the matching procedure, and exploit scene information to effectively assist motion estimation by learning to reason over the adaptive graph. The proposed AGFlow can effectively exploit the context information and incorporate it within the matching procedure, producing more robust and accurate results. On both Sintel clean and final passes, our AGFlow achieves the best accuracy with EPE of 1.43 and 2.47 pixels, outperforming state-of-the-art approaches by 11.2% and 13.6%, respectively.
Random Ferns for Semantic Segmentation of PolSAR Images
Random Ferns -- as a less known example of Ensemble Learning -- have been successfully applied in many Computer Vision applications ranging from keypoint matching to object detection. This paper extends the Random Fern framework to the semantic segmentation of polarimetric synthetic aperture radar images. By using internal projections that are defined over the space of Hermitian matrices, the proposed classifier can be directly applied to the polarimetric covariance matrices without the need to explicitly compute predefined image features. Furthermore, two distinct optimization strategies are proposed: The first based on pre-selection and grouping of internal binary features before the creation of the classifier; and the second based on iteratively improving the properties of a given Random Fern. Both strategies are able to boost the performance by filtering features that are either redundant or have a low information content and by grouping correlated features to best fulfill the independence assumptions made by the Random Fern classifier. Experiments show that results can be achieved that are similar to a more complex Random Forest model and competitive to a deep learning baseline.
Local Feature Matching with Transformers for low-end devices
LoFTR arXiv:2104.00680 is an efficient deep learning method for finding appropriate local feature matches on image pairs. This paper reports on the optimization of this method to work on devices with low computational performance and limited memory. The original LoFTR approach is based on a ResNet arXiv:1512.03385 head and two modules based on Linear Transformer arXiv:2006.04768 architecture. In the presented work, only the coarse-matching block was left, the number of parameters was significantly reduced, and the network was trained using a knowledge distillation technique. The comparison showed that this approach allows to obtain an appropriate feature detection accuracy for the student model compared to the teacher model in the coarse matching block, despite the significant reduction of model size. Also, the paper shows additional steps required to make model compatible with NVIDIA TensorRT runtime, and shows an approach to optimize training method for low-end GPUs.
Sim2Real Object-Centric Keypoint Detection and Description
Keypoint detection and description play a central role in computer vision. Most existing methods are in the form of scene-level prediction, without returning the object classes of different keypoints. In this paper, we propose the object-centric formulation, which, beyond the conventional setting, requires further identifying which object each interest point belongs to. With such fine-grained information, our framework enables more downstream potentials, such as object-level matching and pose estimation in a clustered environment. To get around the difficulty of label collection in the real world, we develop a sim2real contrastive learning mechanism that can generalize the model trained in simulation to real-world applications. The novelties of our training method are three-fold: (i) we integrate the uncertainty into the learning framework to improve feature description of hard cases, e.g., less-textured or symmetric patches; (ii) we decouple the object descriptor into two output branches -- intra-object salience and inter-object distinctness, resulting in a better pixel-wise description; (iii) we enforce cross-view semantic consistency for enhanced robustness in representation learning. Comprehensive experiments on image matching and 6D pose estimation verify the encouraging generalization ability of our method from simulation to reality. Particularly for 6D pose estimation, our method significantly outperforms typical unsupervised/sim2real methods, achieving a closer gap with the fully supervised counterpart. Additional results and videos can be found at https://zhongcl-thu.github.io/rock/
Learning Super-Features for Image Retrieval
Methods that combine local and global features have recently shown excellent performance on multiple challenging deep image retrieval benchmarks, but their use of local features raises at least two issues. First, these local features simply boil down to the localized map activations of a neural network, and hence can be extremely redundant. Second, they are typically trained with a global loss that only acts on top of an aggregation of local features; by contrast, testing is based on local feature matching, which creates a discrepancy between training and testing. In this paper, we propose a novel architecture for deep image retrieval, based solely on mid-level features that we call Super-features. These Super-features are constructed by an iterative attention module and constitute an ordered set in which each element focuses on a localized and discriminant image pattern. For training, they require only image labels. A contrastive loss operates directly at the level of Super-features and focuses on those that match across images. A second complementary loss encourages diversity. Experiments on common landmark retrieval benchmarks validate that Super-features substantially outperform state-of-the-art methods when using the same number of features, and only require a significantly smaller memory footprint to match their performance. Code and models are available at: https://github.com/naver/FIRe.
Stereo Matching with Cost Volume based Sparse Disparity Propagation
Stereo matching is crucial for binocular stereo vision. Existing methods mainly focus on simple disparity map fusion to improve stereo matching, which require multiple dense or sparse disparity maps. In this paper, we propose a simple yet novel scheme, termed feature disparity propagation, to improve general stereo matching based on matching cost volume and sparse matching feature points. Specifically, our scheme first calculates a reliable sparse disparity map by local feature matching, and then refines the disparity map by propagating reliable disparities to neighboring pixels in the matching cost domain. In addition, considering the gradient and multi-scale information of local disparity regions, we present a $\rho$-Census cost measure based on the well-known AD-Census, which guarantees the robustness of cost volume even without the cost aggregation step. Extensive experiments on Middlebury stereo benchmark V3 demonstrate that our scheme achieves promising performance comparable to state-of-the-art methods.
Efficient divide-and-conquer registration of UAV and ground LiDAR point clouds through canopy shape context
Registration of unmanned aerial vehicle laser scanning (ULS) and ground light detection and ranging (LiDAR) point clouds in forests is critical to create a detailed representation of a forest structure and an accurate inversion of forest parameters. However, forest occlusion poses challenges for marker-based registration methods, and some marker-free automated registration methods have low efficiency due to the process of object (e.g., tree, crown) segmentation. Therefore, we use a divide-and-conquer strategy and propose an automated and efficient method to register ULS and ground LiDAR point clouds in forests. Registration involves coarse alignment and fine registration, where the coarse alignment of point clouds is divided into vertical and horizontal alignment. The vertical alignment is achieved by ground alignment, which is achieved by the transformation relationship between normal vectors of the ground point cloud and the horizontal plane, and the horizontal alignment is achieved by canopy projection image matching. During image matching, vegetation points are first distinguished by the ground filtering algorithm, and then, vegetation points are projected onto the horizontal plane to obtain two binary images. To match the two images, a matching strategy is used based on canopy shape context features, which are described by a two-point congruent set and canopy overlap. Finally, we implement coarse alignment of ULS and ground LiDAR datasets by combining the results of ground alignment and image matching and finish fine registration. Also, the effectiveness, accuracy, and efficiency of the proposed method are demonstrated by field measurements of forest plots. Experimental results show that the ULS and ground LiDAR data in different plots are registered, of which the horizontal alignment errors are less than 0.02 m, and the average runtime of the proposed method is less than 1 second.
Scalable Cluster-Consistency Statistics for Robust Multi-Object Matching
We develop new statistics for robustly filtering corrupted keypoint matches in the structure from motion pipeline. The statistics are based on consistency constraints that arise within the clustered structure of the graph of keypoint matches. The statistics are designed to give smaller values to corrupted matches and than uncorrupted matches. These new statistics are combined with an iterative reweighting scheme to filter keypoints, which can then be fed into any standard structure from motion pipeline. This filtering method can be efficiently implemented and scaled to massive datasets as it only requires sparse matrix multiplication. We demonstrate the efficacy of this method on synthetic and real structure from motion datasets and show that it achieves state-of-the-art accuracy and speed in these tasks.
High-resolution Ecosystem Mapping in Repetitive Environments Using Dual Camera SLAM
Structure from Motion (SfM) techniques are being increasingly used to create 3D maps from images in many domains including environmental monitoring. However, SfM techniques are often confounded in visually repetitive environments as they rely primarily on globally distinct image features. Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) techniques offer a potential solution in visually repetitive environments since they use local feature matching, but SLAM approaches work best with wide-angle cameras that are often unsuitable for documenting the environmental system of interest. We resolve this issue by proposing a dual-camera SLAM approach that uses a forward facing wide-angle camera for localization and a downward facing narrower angle, high-resolution camera for documentation. Video frames acquired by the forward facing camera video are processed using a standard SLAM approach providing a trajectory of the imaging system through the environment which is then used to guide the registration of the documentation camera images. Fragmentary maps, initially produced from the documentation camera images via monocular SLAM, are subsequently scaled and aligned with the localization camera trajectory and finally subjected to a global optimization procedure to produce a unified, refined map. An experimental comparison with several state-of-the-art SfM approaches shows the dual-camera SLAM approach to perform better in repetitive environmental systems based on select samples of ground control point markers.
Multi-initialization Optimization Network for Accurate 3D Human Pose and Shape Estimation
3D human pose and shape recovery from a monocular RGB image is a challenging task. Existing learning based methods highly depend on weak supervision signals, e.g. 2D and 3D joint location, due to the lack of in-the-wild paired 3D supervision. However, considering the 2D-to-3D ambiguities existed in these weak supervision labels, the network is easy to get stuck in local optima when trained with such labels. In this paper, we reduce the ambituity by optimizing multiple initializations. Specifically, we propose a three-stage framework named Multi-Initialization Optimization Network (MION). In the first stage, we strategically select different coarse 3D reconstruction candidates which are compatible with the 2D keypoints of input sample. Each coarse reconstruction can be regarded as an initialization leads to one optimization branch. In the second stage, we design a mesh refinement transformer (MRT) to respectively refine each coarse reconstruction result via a self-attention mechanism. Finally, a Consistency Estimation Network (CEN) is proposed to find the best result from mutiple candidates by evaluating if the visual evidence in RGB image matches a given 3D reconstruction. Experiments demonstrate that our Multi-Initialization Optimization Network outperforms existing 3D mesh based methods on multiple public benchmarks.
Scale-Net: Learning to Reduce Scale Differences for Large-Scale Invariant Image Matching
Most image matching methods perform poorly when encountering large scale changes in images. To solve this problem, firstly, we propose a scale-difference-aware image matching method (SDAIM) that reduces image scale differences before local feature extraction, via resizing both images of an image pair according to an estimated scale ratio. Secondly, in order to accurately estimate the scale ratio, we propose a covisibility-attention-reinforced matching module (CVARM) and then design a novel neural network, termed as Scale-Net, based on CVARM. The proposed CVARM can lay more stress on covisible areas within the image pair and suppress the distraction from those areas visible in only one image. Quantitative and qualitative experiments confirm that the proposed Scale-Net has higher scale ratio estimation accuracy and much better generalization ability compared with all the existing scale ratio estimation methods. Further experiments on image matching and relative pose estimation tasks demonstrate that our SDAIM and Scale-Net are able to greatly boost the performance of representative local features and state-of-the-art local feature matching methods.
GPU optimization of the 3D Scale-invariant Feature Transform Algorithm and a Novel BRIEF-inspired 3D Fast Descriptor
This work details a highly efficient implementation of the 3D scale-invariant feature transform (SIFT) algorithm, for the purpose of machine learning from large sets of volumetric medical image data. The primary operations of the 3D SIFT code are implemented on a graphics processing unit (GPU), including convolution, sub-sampling, and 4D peak detection from scale-space pyramids. The performance improvements are quantified in keypoint detection and image-to-image matching experiments, using 3D MRI human brain volumes of different people. Computationally efficient 3D keypoint descriptors are proposed based on the Binary Robust Independent Elementary Feature (BRIEF) code, including a novel descriptor we call Ranked Robust Independent Elementary Features (RRIEF), and compared to the original 3D SIFT-Rank method\citep{toews2013efficient}. The GPU implementation affords a speedup of approximately 7X beyond an optimised CPU implementation, where computation time is reduced from 1.4 seconds to 0.2 seconds for 3D volumes of size (145, 174, 145) voxels with approximately 3000 keypoints. Notable speedups include the convolution operation (20X), 4D peak detection (3X), sub-sampling (3X), and difference-of-Gaussian pyramid construction (2X). Efficient descriptors offer a speedup of 2X and a memory savings of 6X compared to standard SIFT-Rank descriptors, at a cost of reduced numbers of keypoint correspondences, revealing a trade-off between computational efficiency and algorithmic performance. The speedups gained by our implementation will allow for a more efficient analysis on larger data sets. Our optimized GPU implementation of the 3D SIFT-Rank extractor is available at https://github.com/CarluerJB/3D_SIFT_CUDA.
The whole and the parts: the MDL principle and the a-contrario framework
This work explores the connections between the Minimum Description Length (MDL) principle as developed by Rissanen, and the a-contrario framework for structure detection proposed by Desolneux, Moisan and Morel. The MDL principle focuses on the best interpretation for the whole data while the a-contrario approach concentrates on detecting parts of the data with anomalous statistics. Although framed in different theoretical formalisms, we show that both methodologies share many common concepts and tools in their machinery and yield very similar formulations in a number of interesting scenarios ranging from simple toy examples to practical applications such as polygonal approximation of curves and line segment detection in images. We also formulate the conditions under which both approaches are formally equivalent.
More Control for Free! Image Synthesis with Semantic Diffusion Guidance
Controllable image synthesis models allow creation of diverse images based on text instructions or guidance from a reference image. Recently, denoising diffusion probabilistic models have been shown to generate more realistic imagery than prior methods, and have been successfully demonstrated in unconditional and class-conditional settings. We investigate fine-grained, continuous control of this model class, and introduce a novel unified framework for semantic diffusion guidance, which allows either language or image guidance, or both. Guidance is injected into a pretrained unconditional diffusion model using the gradient of image-text or image matching scores, without re-training the diffusion model. We explore CLIP-based language guidance as well as both content and style-based image guidance in a unified framework. Our text-guided synthesis approach can be applied to datasets without associated text annotations. We conduct experiments on FFHQ and LSUN datasets, and show results on fine-grained text-guided image synthesis, synthesis of images related to a style or content reference image, and examples with both textual and image guidance.
Label-free virtual HER2 immunohistochemical staining of breast tissue using deep learning
The immunohistochemical (IHC) staining of the human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) biomarker is widely practiced in breast tissue analysis, preclinical studies and diagnostic decisions, guiding cancer treatment and investigation of pathogenesis. HER2 staining demands laborious tissue treatment and chemical processing performed by a histotechnologist, which typically takes one day to prepare in a laboratory, increasing analysis time and associated costs. Here, we describe a deep learning-based virtual HER2 IHC staining method using a conditional generative adversarial network that is trained to rapidly transform autofluorescence microscopic images of unlabeled/label-free breast tissue sections into bright-field equivalent microscopic images, matching the standard HER2 IHC staining that is chemically performed on the same tissue sections. The efficacy of this virtual HER2 staining framework was demonstrated by quantitative analysis, in which three board-certified breast pathologists blindly graded the HER2 scores of virtually stained and immunohistochemically stained HER2 whole slide images (WSIs) to reveal that the HER2 scores determined by inspecting virtual IHC images are as accurate as their immunohistochemically stained counterparts. A second quantitative blinded study performed by the same diagnosticians further revealed that the virtually stained HER2 images exhibit a comparable staining quality in the level of nuclear detail, membrane clearness, and absence of staining artifacts with respect to their immunohistochemically stained counterparts. This virtual HER2 staining framework bypasses the costly, laborious, and time-consuming IHC staining procedures in laboratory, and can be extended to other types of biomarkers to accelerate the IHC tissue staining used in life sciences and biomedical workflow.
FaSS-MVS -- Fast Multi-View Stereo with Surface-Aware Semi-Global Matching from UAV-borne Monocular Imagery
With FaSS-MVS, we present an approach for fast multi-view stereo with surface-aware Semi-Global Matching that allows for rapid depth and normal map estimation from monocular aerial video data captured by UAVs. The data estimated by FaSS-MVS, in turn, facilitates online 3D mapping, meaning that a 3D map of the scene is immediately and incrementally generated while the image data is acquired or being received. FaSS-MVS is comprised of a hierarchical processing scheme in which depth and normal data, as well as corresponding confidence scores, are estimated in a coarse-to-fine manner, allowing to efficiently process large scene depths which are inherent to oblique imagery captured by low-flying UAVs. The actual depth estimation employs a plane-sweep algorithm for dense multi-image matching to produce depth hypotheses from which the actual depth map is extracted by means of a surface-aware semi-global optimization, reducing the fronto-parallel bias of SGM. Given the estimated depth map, the pixel-wise surface normal information is then computed by reprojecting the depth map into a point cloud and calculating the normal vectors within a confined local neighborhood. In a thorough quantitative and ablative study we show that the accuracies of the 3D information calculated by FaSS-MVS is close to that of state-of-the-art approaches for offline multi-view stereo, with the error not even being one magnitude higher than that of COLMAP. At the same time, however, the average run-time of FaSS-MVS to estimate a single depth and normal map is less than 14 % of that of COLMAP, allowing to perform an online and incremental processing of Full-HD imagery at 1-2 Hz.
CLIPstyler: Image Style Transfer with a Single Text Condition
Existing neural style transfer methods require reference style images to transfer texture information of style images to content images. However, in many practical situations, users may not have reference style images but still be interested in transferring styles by just imagining them. In order to deal with such applications, we propose a new framework that enables a style transfer `without' a style image, but only with a text description of the desired style. Using the pre-trained text-image embedding model of CLIP, we demonstrate the modulation of the style of content images only with a single text condition. Specifically, we propose a patch-wise text-image matching loss with multiview augmentations for realistic texture transfer. Extensive experimental results confirmed the successful image style transfer with realistic textures that reflect semantic query texts.
ZeroCap: Zero-Shot Image-to-Text Generation for Visual-Semantic Arithmetic
Recent text-to-image matching models apply contrastive learning to large corpora of uncurated pairs of images and sentences. While such models can provide a powerful score for matching and subsequent zero-shot tasks, they are not capable of generating caption given an image. In this work, we repurpose such models to generate a descriptive text given an image at inference time, without any further training or tuning steps. This is done by combining the visual-semantic model with a large language model, benefiting from the knowledge in both web-scale models. The resulting captions are much less restrictive than those obtained by supervised captioning methods. Moreover, as a zero-shot learning method, it is extremely flexible and we demonstrate its ability to perform image arithmetic in which the inputs can be either images or text, and the output is a sentence. This enables novel high-level vision capabilities such as comparing two images or solving visual analogy tests. Our code is available at: https://github.com/YoadTew/zero-shot-image-to-text.
Heterogeneous Visible-Thermal and Visible-Infrared Face Recognition using Unit-Class Loss and Cross-Modality Discriminator
Visible-to-thermal face image matching is a challenging variate of cross-modality recognition. The challenge lies in the large modality gap and low correlation between visible and thermal modalities. Existing approaches employ image preprocessing, feature extraction, or common subspace projection, which are independent problems in themselves. In this paper, we propose an end-to-end framework for cross-modal face recognition. The proposed algorithm aims to learn identity-discriminative features from unprocessed facial images and identify cross-modal image pairs. A novel Unit-Class Loss is proposed for preserving identity information while discarding modality information. In addition, a Cross-Modality Discriminator block is proposed for integrating image-pair classification capability into the network. The proposed network can be used to extract modality-independent vector representations or a matching-pair classification for test images. Our cross-modality face recognition experiments on five independent databases demonstrate that the proposed method achieves marked improvement over existing state-of-the-art methods.
Nonlinear Intensity Underwater Sonar Image Matching Method Based on Phase Information and Deep Convolution Features
In the field of deep-sea exploration, sonar is presently the only efficient long-distance sensing device. The complicated underwater environment, such as noise interference, low target intensity or background dynamics, has brought many negative effects on sonar imaging. Among them, the problem of nonlinear intensity is extremely prevalent. It is also known as the anisotropy of acoustic sensor imaging, that is, when autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) carry sonar to detect the same target from different angles, the intensity variation between image pairs is sometimes very large, which makes the traditional matching algorithm almost ineffective. However, image matching is the basis of comprehensive tasks such as navigation, positioning, and mapping. Therefore, it is very valuable to obtain robust and accurate matching results. This paper proposes a combined matching method based on phase information and deep convolution features. It has two outstanding advantages: one is that the deep convolution features could be used to measure the similarity of the local and global positions of the sonar image; the other is that local feature matching could be performed at the key target position of the sonar image. This method does not need complex manual designs, and completes the matching task of nonlinear intensity sonar images in a close end-to-end manner. Feature matching experiments are carried out on the deep-sea sonar images captured by AUVs, and the results show that our proposal has preeminent matching accuracy and robustness.
Probabilistic Spatial Distribution Prior Based Attentional Keypoints Matching Network
Keypoints matching is a pivotal component for many image-relevant applications such as image stitching, visual simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM), and so on. Both handcrafted-based and recently emerged deep learning-based keypoints matching methods merely rely on keypoints and local features, while losing sight of other available sensors such as inertial measurement unit (IMU) in the above applications. In this paper, we demonstrate that the motion estimation from IMU integration can be used to exploit the spatial distribution prior of keypoints between images. To this end, a probabilistic perspective of attention formulation is proposed to integrate the spatial distribution prior into the attentional graph neural network naturally. With the assistance of spatial distribution prior, the effort of the network for modeling the hidden features can be reduced. Furthermore, we present a projection loss for the proposed keypoints matching network, which gives a smooth edge between matching and un-matching keypoints. Image matching experiments on visual SLAM datasets indicate the effectiveness and efficiency of the presented method.
Nonlinear Intensity Sonar Image Matching based on Deep Convolution Features
With the continuous development of underwater vision technology, more and more remote sensing images could be obtained. In the underwater scene, sonar sensors are currently the most effective remote perception devices, and the sonar images captured by them could provide rich environment information. In order to analyze a certain scene, we often need to merge the sonar images from different periods, various sonar frequencies and distinctive viewpoints. However, the above scenes will bring nonlinear intensity differences to the sonar images, which will make traditional matching methods almost ineffective. This paper proposes a non-linear intensity sonar image matching method that combines local feature points and deep convolution features. This method has two key advantages: (i) we generate data samples related to local feature points based on the self-learning idea; (ii) we use the convolutional neural network (CNN) and Siamese network architecture to measure the similarity of the local position in the sonar image pair. Our method encapsulates the feature extraction and feature matching stage in a model, and directly learns the mapping function from image patch pairs to matching labels, and achieves matching tasks in a near-end-to-end manner. Feature matching experiments are carried out on the sonar images acquired by autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) in the real underwater environment. Experiment results show that our method has better matching effects and strong robustness.
Independent SE(3)-Equivariant Models for End-to-End Rigid Protein Docking
Protein complex formation is a central problem in biology, being involved in most of the cell's processes, and essential for applications, e.g. drug design or protein engineering. We tackle rigid body protein-protein docking, i.e., computationally predicting the 3D structure of a protein-protein complex from the individual unbound structures, assuming no conformational change within the proteins happens during binding. We design a novel pairwise-independent SE(3)-equivariant graph matching network to predict the rotation and translation to place one of the proteins at the right docked position relative to the second protein. We mathematically guarantee a basic principle: the predicted complex is always identical regardless of the initial locations and orientations of the two structures. Our model, named EquiDock, approximates the binding pockets and predicts the docking poses using keypoint matching and alignment, achieved through optimal transport and a differentiable Kabsch algorithm. Empirically, we achieve significant running time improvements and often outperform existing docking software despite not relying on heavy candidate sampling, structure refinement, or templates.
Leveraging Geometry for Shape Estimation from a Single RGB Image
Predicting 3D shapes and poses of static objects from a single RGB image is an important research area in modern computer vision. Its applications range from augmented reality to robotics and digital content creation. Typically this task is performed through direct object shape and pose predictions which is inaccurate. A promising research direction ensures meaningful shape predictions by retrieving CAD models from large scale databases and aligning them to the objects observed in the image. However, existing work does not take the object geometry into account, leading to inaccurate object pose predictions, especially for unseen objects. In this work we demonstrate how cross-domain keypoint matches from an RGB image to a rendered CAD model allow for more precise object pose predictions compared to ones obtained through direct predictions. We further show that keypoint matches can not only be used to estimate the pose of an object, but also to modify the shape of the object itself. This is important as the accuracy that can be achieved with object retrieval alone is inherently limited to the available CAD models. Allowing shape adaptation bridges the gap between the retrieved CAD model and the observed shape. We demonstrate our approach on the challenging Pix3D dataset. The proposed geometric shape prediction improves the AP mesh over the state-of-the-art from 33.2 to 37.8 on seen objects and from 8.2 to 17.1 on unseen objects. Furthermore, we demonstrate more accurate shape predictions without closely matching CAD models when following the proposed shape adaptation. Code is publicly available at https://github.com/florianlanger/leveraging_geometry_for_shape_estimation .
TriVoC: Efficient Voting-based Consensus Maximization for Robust Point Cloud Registration with Extreme Outlier Ratios
Correspondence-based point cloud registration is a cornerstone in robotics perception and computer vision, which seeks to estimate the best rigid transformation aligning two point clouds from the putative correspondences. However, due to the limited robustness of 3D keypoint matching approaches, outliers, probably in large numbers, are prone to exist among the correspondences, which makes robust registration methods imperative. Unfortunately, existing robust methods have their own limitations (e.g. high computational cost or limited robustness) when facing high or extreme outlier ratios, probably unsuitable for practical use. In this paper, we present a novel, fast, deterministic and guaranteed robust solver, named TriVoC (Triple-layered Voting with Consensus maximization), for the robust registration problem. We decompose the selecting of the minimal 3-point sets into 3 consecutive layers, and in each layer we design an efficient voting and correspondence sorting framework on the basis of the pairwise equal-length constraint. In this manner, the 3-point sets can be selected independently from the reduced correspondence sets according to the sorted sequence, which can significantly lower the computational cost and meanwhile provide a strong guarantee to achieve the largest consensus set (as the final inlier set) as long as a probabilistic termination condition is fulfilled. Varied experiments show that our solver TriVoC is robust against up to 99% outliers, highly accurate, time-efficient even with extreme outlier ratios, and also practical for real-world applications, showing performance superior to other state-of-the-art competitors.
A Deep Search for Faint Chandra X-ray Sources, Radio Sources, and Optical Counterparts in NGC 6752
We report the results of a deep search for faint Chandra X-ray sources, radio sources, and optical counterparts in the nearby, core-collapsed globular cluster, NGC 6752. We combined new and archival Chandra imaging to detect 51 X-ray sources (12 of which are new) within the 1.9 arcmin half-light radius. Three radio sources in deep ATCA 5 and 9 GHz radio images match with Chandra sources. We have searched for optical identifications for the expanded Chandra source list using deep Hubble Space Telescope photometry in B, R, H-alpha, UV, and U. Among the entire sample of 51 Chandra sources, we identify 18 cataclysmic variables (CVs), 9 chromospherically active binaries (ABs), 3 red giants (RGs), 3 galaxies (GLXs), and 6 active galactic nuclei (AGNs). Three of the sources are associated with millisecond pulsars (MSPs). As in our previous study of NGC 6752, we find that the brightest CVs appear to be more centrally concentrated than are the faintest CVs, although the effect is no longer statistically significant as a consequence of the inclusion in the faint group of two intermediate brightness CVs. This possible difference in the radial distributions of the bright and faint CV groups appears to indicate that mass segregation has separated them. We note that photometric incompleteness in the crowded central region of the cluster may also play a role. Both groups of CVs have an inferred mass above that of the main-sequence turnoff stars. We discuss the implications for the masses of the CV components.
DANIEL: A Fast and Robust Consensus Maximization Method for Point Cloud Registration with High Outlier Ratios
Correspondence-based point cloud registration is a cornerstone in geometric computer vision, robotics perception, photogrammetry and remote sensing, which seeks to estimate the best rigid transformation between two point clouds from the correspondences established over 3D keypoints. However, due to limited robustness and accuracy, current 3D keypoint matching techniques are very prone to yield outliers, probably even in very large numbers, making robust estimation for point cloud registration of great importance. Unfortunately, existing robust methods may suffer from high computational cost or insufficient robustness when encountering high (or even extreme) outlier ratios, hardly ideal enough for practical use. In this paper, we present a novel time-efficient RANSAC-type consensus maximization solver, named DANIEL (Double-layered sAmpliNg with consensus maximization based on stratIfied Element-wise compatibiLity), for robust registration. DANIEL is designed with two layers of random sampling, in order to find inlier subsets with the lowest computational cost possible. Specifically, we: (i) apply the rigidity constraint to prune raw outliers in the first layer of one-point sampling, (ii) introduce a series of stratified element-wise compatibility tests to conduct rapid compatibility checking between minimal models so as to realize more efficient consensus maximization in the second layer of two-point sampling, and (iii) probabilistic termination conditions are employed to ensure the timely return of the final inlier set. Based on a variety of experiments over multiple real datasets, we show that DANIEL is robust against over 99% outliers and also significantly faster than existing state-of-the-art robust solvers (e.g. RANSAC, FGR, GORE).
Using Keypoint Matching and Interactive Self Attention Network to verify Retail POSMs
Point of Sale Materials(POSM) are the merchandising and decoration items that are used by companies to communicate product information and offers in retail stores. POSMs are part of companies' retail marketing strategy and are often applied as stylized window displays around retail shelves. In this work, we apply computer vision techniques to the task of verification of POSMs in supermarkets by telling if all desired components of window display are present in a shelf image. We use Convolutional Neural Network based unsupervised keypoint matching as a baseline to verify POSM components and propose a supervised Neural Network based method to enhance the accuracy of baseline by a large margin. We also show that the supervised pipeline is not restricted to the POSM material it is trained on and can generalize. We train and evaluate our model on a private dataset composed of retail shelf images.
Robustly Removing Deep Sea Lighting Effects for Visual Mapping of Abyssal Plains
The majority of Earth's surface lies deep in the oceans, where no surface light reaches. Robots diving down to great depths must bring light sources that create moving illumination patterns in the darkness, such that the same 3D point appears with different color in each image. On top, scattering and attenuation of light in the water makes images appear foggy and typically blueish, the degradation depending on each pixel's distance to its observed seafloor patch, on the local composition of the water and the relative poses and cones of the light sources. Consequently, visual mapping, including image matching and surface albedo estimation, severely suffers from the effects that co-moving light sources produce, and larger mosaic maps from photos are often dominated by lighting effects that obscure the actual seafloor structure. In this contribution a practical approach to estimating and compensating these lighting effects on predominantly homogeneous, flat seafloor regions, as can be found in the Abyssal plains of our oceans, is presented. The method is essentially parameter-free and intended as a preprocessing step to facilitate visual mapping, but already produces convincing lighting artefact compensation up to a global white balance factor. It does not require to be trained beforehand on huge sets of annotated images, which are not available for the deep sea. Rather, we motivate our work by physical models of light propagation, perform robust statistics-based estimates of additive and multiplicative nuisances that avoid explicit parameters for light, camera, water or scene, discuss the breakdown point of the algorithms and show results on imagery captured by robots in several kilometer water depth.
Visually Grounded Concept Composition
We investigate ways to compose complex concepts in texts from primitive ones while grounding them in images. We propose Concept and Relation Graph (CRG), which builds on top of constituency analysis and consists of recursively combined concepts with predicate functions. Meanwhile, we propose a concept composition neural network called Composer to leverage the CRG for visually grounded concept learning. Specifically, we learn the grounding of both primitive and all composed concepts by aligning them to images and show that learning to compose leads to more robust grounding results, measured in text-to-image matching accuracy. Notably, our model can model grounded concepts forming at both the finer-grained sentence level and the coarser-grained intermediate level (or word-level). Composer leads to pronounced improvement in matching accuracy when the evaluation data has significant compound divergence from the training data.
HarrisZ$^+$: Harris Corner Selection for Next-Gen Image Matching Pipelines
Due to its role in many computer vision tasks, image matching has been subjected to an active investigation by researchers, which has lead to better and more discriminant feature descriptors and to more robust matching strategies, also thanks to the advent of the deep learning and the increased computational power of the modern hardware. Despite of these achievements, the keypoint extraction process at the base of the image matching pipeline has not seen equivalent progresses. This paper presents HarrisZ$^+$, an upgrade to the HarrisZ corner detector, optimized to synergically take advance of the recent improvements of the other steps of the image matching pipeline. HarrisZ$^+$ does not only consists of a tuning of the setup parameters, but introduces further refinements to the selection criteria delineated by HarrisZ, so providing more, yet discriminative, keypoints, which are better distributed on the image and with higher localization accuracy. The image matching pipeline including HarrisZ$^+$, together with the other modern components, obtained in different recent matching benchmarks state-of-the-art results among the classic image matching pipelines. These results are quite close to those obtained by the more recent fully deep end-to-end trainable approaches and show that there is still a proper margin of improvement that can be granted by the research in classic image matching methods.
Viewpoint Invariant Dense Matching for Visual Geolocalization
In this paper we propose a novel method for image matching based on dense local features and tailored for visual geolocalization. Dense local features matching is robust against changes in illumination and occlusions, but not against viewpoint shifts which are a fundamental aspect of geolocalization. Our method, called GeoWarp, directly embeds invariance to viewpoint shifts in the process of extracting dense features. This is achieved via a trainable module which learns from the data an invariance that is meaningful for the task of recognizing places. We also devise a new self-supervised loss and two new weakly supervised losses to train this module using only unlabeled data and weak labels. GeoWarp is implemented efficiently as a re-ranking method that can be easily embedded into pre-existing visual geolocalization pipelines. Experimental validation on standard geolocalization benchmarks demonstrates that GeoWarp boosts the accuracy of state-of-the-art retrieval architectures. The code and trained models are available at https://github.com/gmberton/geo_warp
Line as a Visual Sentence: Context-aware Line Descriptor for Visual Localization
Along with feature points for image matching, line features provide additional constraints to solve visual geometric problems in robotics and computer vision (CV). Although recent convolutional neural network (CNN)-based line descriptors are promising for viewpoint changes or dynamic environments, we claim that the CNN architecture has innate disadvantages to abstract variable line length into the fixed-dimensional descriptor. In this paper, we effectively introduce Line-Transformers dealing with variable lines. Inspired by natural language processing (NLP) tasks where sentences can be understood and abstracted well in neural nets, we view a line segment as a sentence that contains points (words). By attending to well-describable points on aline dynamically, our descriptor performs excellently on variable line length. We also propose line signature networks sharing the line's geometric attributes to neighborhoods. Performing as group descriptors, the networks enhance line descriptors by understanding lines' relative geometries. Finally, we present the proposed line descriptor and matching in a Point and Line Localization (PL-Loc). We show that the visual localization with feature points can be improved using our line features. We validate the proposed method for homography estimation and visual localization.
Matching in the Dark: A Dataset for Matching Image Pairs of Low-light Scenes
This paper considers matching images of low-light scenes, aiming to widen the frontier of SfM and visual SLAM applications. Recent image sensors can record the brightness of scenes with more than eight-bit precision, available in their RAW-format image. We are interested in making full use of such high-precision information to match extremely low-light scene images that conventional methods cannot handle. For extreme low-light scenes, even if some of their brightness information exists in the RAW format images' low bits, the standard raw image processing on cameras fails to utilize them properly. As was recently shown by Chen et al., CNNs can learn to produce images with a natural appearance from such RAW-format images. To consider if and how well we can utilize such information stored in RAW-format images for image matching, we have created a new dataset named MID (matching in the dark). Using it, we experimentally evaluated combinations of eight image-enhancing methods and eleven image matching methods consisting of classical/neural local descriptors and classical/neural initial point-matching methods. The results show the advantage of using the RAW-format images and the strengths and weaknesses of the above component methods. They also imply there is room for further research.
A Matching Algorithm based on Image Attribute Transfer and Local Features for Underwater Acoustic and Optical Images
In the field of underwater vision research, image matching between the sonar sensors and optical cameras has always been a challenging problem. Due to the difference in the imaging mechanism between them, which are the gray value, texture, contrast, etc. of the acoustic images and the optical images are also variant in local locations, which makes the traditional matching method based on the optical image invalid. Coupled with the difficulties and high costs of underwater data acquisition, it further affects the research process of acousto-optic data fusion technology. In order to maximize the use of underwater sensor data and promote the development of multi-sensor information fusion (MSIF), this study applies the image attribute transfer method based on deep learning approach to solve the problem of acousto-optic image matching, the core of which is to eliminate the imaging differences between them as much as possible. At the same time, the advanced local feature descriptor is introduced to solve the challenging acousto-optic matching problem. Experimental results show that our proposed method could preprocess acousto-optic images effectively and obtain accurate matching results. Additionally, the method is based on the combination of image depth semantic layer, and it could indirectly display the local feature matching relationship between original image pair, which provides a new solution to the underwater multi-sensor image matching problem.
Matching Underwater Sonar Images by the Learned Descriptor Based on Style Transfer Method
This paper proposes a method that combines the style transfer technique and the learned descriptor to enhance the matching performances of underwater sonar images. In the field of underwater vision, sonar is currently the most effective long-distance detection sensor, it has excellent performances in map building and target search tasks. However, the traditional image matching algorithms are all developed based on optical images. In order to solve this contradiction, the style transfer method is used to convert the sonar images into optical styles, and at the same time, the learned descriptor with excellent expressiveness for sonar images matching is introduced. Experiments show that this method significantly enhances the matching quality of sonar images. In addition, it also provides new ideas for the preprocessing of underwater sonar images by using the style transfer approach.
Efficient Joint Object Matching via Linear Programming
Joint object matching, also known as multi-image matching, namely, the problem of finding consistent partial maps among all pairs of objects within a collection, is a crucial task in many areas of computer vision. This problem subsumes bipartite graph matching and graph partitioning as special cases and is NP-hard, in general. We develop scalable linear programming (LP) relaxations with theoretical performance guarantees for joint object matching. We start by proposing a new characterization of consistent partial maps; this in turn enables us to formulate joint object matching as an integer linear programming (ILP) problem. To construct strong LP relaxations, we study the facial structure of the convex hull of the feasible region of this ILP, which we refer to as the joint matching polytope. We present an exponential family of facet-defining inequalities that can be separated in strongly polynomial time, hence obtaining a partial characterization of the joint matching polytope that is both tight and cheap to compute. To analyze the theoretical performance of the proposed LP relaxations, we focus on permutation group synchronization, an important special case of joint object matching. We show that under the random corruption model for the input maps, a simple LP relaxation, that is, an LP containing only a very small fraction of the proposed facet-defining inequalities, recovers the ground truth with high probability if the corruption level is below $40\%$. Finally, via a preliminary computational study on synthetic data, we show that the proposed LP relaxations outperform a popular SDP relaxation both in terms of recovery and tightness.
Quality assessment of image matchers for DSM generation -- a comparative study based on UAV images
Recently developed automatic dense image matching algorithms are now being implemented for DSM/DTM production, with their pixel-level surface generation capability offering the prospect of partially alleviating the need for manual and semi-automatic stereoscopic measurements. In this paper, five commercial/public software packages for 3D surface generation are evaluated, using 5cm GSD imagery recorded from a UAV. Generated surface models are assessed against point clouds generated from mobile LiDAR and manual stereoscopic measurements. The software packages considered are APS, MICMAC, SURE, Pix4UAV and an SGM implementation from DLR.
Pixel-Perfect Structure-from-Motion with Featuremetric Refinement
Finding local features that are repeatable across multiple views is a cornerstone of sparse 3D reconstruction. The classical image matching paradigm detects keypoints per-image once and for all, which can yield poorly-localized features and propagate large errors to the final geometry. In this paper, we refine two key steps of structure-from-motion by a direct alignment of low-level image information from multiple views: we first adjust the initial keypoint locations prior to any geometric estimation, and subsequently refine points and camera poses as a post-processing. This refinement is robust to large detection noise and appearance changes, as it optimizes a featuremetric error based on dense features predicted by a neural network. This significantly improves the accuracy of camera poses and scene geometry for a wide range of keypoint detectors, challenging viewing conditions, and off-the-shelf deep features. Our system easily scales to large image collections, enabling pixel-perfect crowd-sourced localization at scale. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/cvg/pixel-perfect-sfm as an add-on to the popular SfM software COLMAP.
Effect of Parameter Optimization on Classical and Learning-based Image Matching Methods
Deep learning-based image matching methods are improved significantly during the recent years. Although these methods are reported to outperform the classical techniques, the performance of the classical methods is not examined in detail. In this study, we compare classical and learning-based methods by employing mutual nearest neighbor search with ratio test and optimizing the ratio test threshold to achieve the best performance on two different performance metrics. After a fair comparison, the experimental results on HPatches dataset reveal that the performance gap between classical and learning-based methods is not that significant. Throughout the experiments, we demonstrated that SuperGlue is the state-of-the-art technique for the image matching problem on HPatches dataset. However, if a single parameter, namely ratio test threshold, is carefully optimized, a well-known traditional method SIFT performs quite close to SuperGlue and even outperforms in terms of mean matching accuracy (MMA) under 1 and 2 pixel thresholds. Moreover, a recent approach, DFM, which only uses pre-trained VGG features as descriptors and ratio test, is shown to outperform most of the well-trained learning-based methods. Therefore, we conclude that the parameters of any classical method should be analyzed carefully before comparing against a learning-based technique.
Reassessing the Limitations of CNN Methods for Camera Pose Regression
In this paper, we address the problem of camera pose estimation in outdoor and indoor scenarios. In comparison to the currently top-performing methods that rely on 2D to 3D matching, we propose a model that can directly regress the camera pose from images with significantly higher accuracy than existing methods of the same class. We first analyse why regression methods are still behind the state-of-the-art, and we bridge the performance gap with our new approach. Specifically, we propose a way to overcome the biased training data by a novel training technique, which generates poses guided by a probability distribution from the training set for synthesising new training views. Lastly, we evaluate our approach on two widely used benchmarks and show that it achieves significantly improved performance compared to prior regression-based methods, retrieval techniques as well as 3D pipelines with local feature matching.
Method Towards CVPR 2021 SimLocMatch Challenge
This report describes Megvii-3D team's approach towards SimLocMatch Challenge @ CVPR 2021 Image Matching Workshop.
Method Towards CVPR 2021 Image Matching Challenge
This report describes Megvii-3D team's approach towards CVPR 2021 Image Matching Workshop.
Few-shot Unsupervised Domain Adaptation with Image-to-class Sparse Similarity Encoding
This paper investigates a valuable setting called few-shot unsupervised domain adaptation (FS-UDA), which has not been sufficiently studied in the literature. In this setting, the source domain data are labelled, but with few-shot per category, while the target domain data are unlabelled. To address the FS-UDA setting, we develop a general UDA model to solve the following two key issues: the few-shot labeled data per category and the domain adaptation between support and query sets. Our model is general in that once trained it will be able to be applied to various FS-UDA tasks from the same source and target domains. Inspired by the recent local descriptor based few-shot learning (FSL), our general UDA model is fully built upon local descriptors (LDs) for image classification and domain adaptation. By proposing a novel concept called similarity patterns (SPs), our model not only effectively considers the spatial relationship of LDs that was ignored in previous FSL methods, but also makes the learned image similarity better serve the required domain alignment. Specifically, we propose a novel IMage-to-class sparse Similarity Encoding (IMSE) method. It learns SPs to extract the local discriminative information for classification and meanwhile aligns the covariance matrix of the SPs for domain adaptation. Also, domain adversarial training and multi-scale local feature matching are performed upon LDs. Extensive experiments conducted on a multi-domain benchmark dataset DomainNet demonstrates the state-of-the-art performance of our IMSE for the novel setting of FS-UDA. In addition, for FSL, our IMSE can also show better performance than most of recent FSL methods on miniImageNet.
Forward-Looking Sonar Patch Matching: Modern CNNs, Ensembling, and Uncertainty
Application of underwater robots are on the rise, most of them are dependent on sonar for underwater vision, but the lack of strong perception capabilities limits them in this task. An important issue in sonar perception is matching image patches, which can enable other techniques like localization, change detection, and mapping. There is a rich literature for this problem in color images, but for acoustic images, it is lacking, due to the physics that produce these images. In this paper we improve on our previous results for this problem (Valdenegro-Toro et al, 2017), instead of modeling features manually, a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) learns a similarity function and predicts if two input sonar images are similar or not. With the objective of improving the sonar image matching problem further, three state of the art CNN architectures are evaluated on the Marine Debris dataset, namely DenseNet, and VGG, with a siamese or two-channel architecture, and contrastive loss. To ensure a fair evaluation of each network, thorough hyper-parameter optimization is executed. We find that the best performing models are DenseNet Two-Channel network with 0.955 AUC, VGG-Siamese with contrastive loss at 0.949 AUC and DenseNet Siamese with 0.921 AUC. By ensembling the top performing DenseNet two-channel and DenseNet-Siamese models overall highest prediction accuracy obtained is 0.978 AUC, showing a large improvement over the 0.91 AUC in the state of the art.
HRegNet: A Hierarchical Network for Large-scale Outdoor LiDAR Point Cloud Registration
Point cloud registration is a fundamental problem in 3D computer vision. Outdoor LiDAR point clouds are typically large-scale and complexly distributed, which makes the registration challenging. In this paper, we propose an efficient hierarchical network named HRegNet for large-scale outdoor LiDAR point cloud registration. Instead of using all points in the point clouds, HRegNet performs registration on hierarchically extracted keypoints and descriptors. The overall framework combines the reliable features in deeper layer and the precise position information in shallower layers to achieve robust and precise registration. We present a correspondence network to generate correct and accurate keypoints correspondences. Moreover, bilateral consensus and neighborhood consensus are introduced for keypoints matching and novel similarity features are designed to incorporate them into the correspondence network, which significantly improves the registration performance. Besides, the whole network is also highly efficient since only a small number of keypoints are used for registration. Extensive experiments are conducted on two large-scale outdoor LiDAR point cloud datasets to demonstrate the high accuracy and efficiency of the proposed HRegNet. The project website is https://ispc-group.github.io/hregnet.
Precise Aerial Image Matching based on Deep Homography Estimation
Aerial image registration or matching is a geometric process of aligning two aerial images captured in different environments. Estimating the precise transformation parameters is hindered by various environments such as time, weather, and viewpoints. The characteristics of the aerial images are mainly composed of a straight line owing to building and road. Therefore, the straight lines are distorted when estimating homography parameters directly between two images. In this paper, we propose a deep homography alignment network to precisely match two aerial images by progressively estimating the various transformation parameters. The proposed network is possible to train the matching network with a higher degree of freedom by progressively analyzing the transformation parameters. The precision matching performances have been increased by applying homography transformation. In addition, we introduce a method that can effectively learn the difficult-to-learn homography estimation network. Since there is no published learning data for aerial image registration, in this paper, a pair of images to which random homography transformation is applied within a certain range is used for learning. Hence, we could confirm that the deep homography alignment network shows high precision matching performance compared with conventional works.
Self-Supervised Multi-Modal Alignment for Whole Body Medical Imaging
This paper explores the use of self-supervised deep learning in medical imaging in cases where two scan modalities are available for the same subject. Specifically, we use a large publicly-available dataset of over 20,000 subjects from the UK Biobank with both whole body Dixon technique magnetic resonance (MR) scans and also dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scans. We make three contributions: (i) We introduce a multi-modal image-matching contrastive framework, that is able to learn to match different-modality scans of the same subject with high accuracy. (ii) Without any adaption, we show that the correspondences learnt during this contrastive training step can be used to perform automatic cross-modal scan registration in a completely unsupervised manner. (iii) Finally, we use these registrations to transfer segmentation maps from the DXA scans to the MR scans where they are used to train a network to segment anatomical regions without requiring ground-truth MR examples. To aid further research, our code will be made publicly available.
Visual Odometry with an Event Camera Using Continuous Ray Warping and Volumetric Contrast Maximization
We present a new solution to tracking and mapping with an event camera. The motion of the camera contains both rotation and translation, and the displacements happen in an arbitrarily structured environment. As a result, the image matching may no longer be represented by a low-dimensional homographic warping, thus complicating an application of the commonly used Image of Warped Events (IWE). We introduce a new solution to this problem by performing contrast maximization in 3D. The 3D location of the rays cast for each event is smoothly varied as a function of a continuous-time motion parametrization, and the optimal parameters are found by maximizing the contrast in a volumetric ray density field. Our method thus performs joint optimization over motion and structure. The practical validity of our approach is supported by an application to AGV motion estimation and 3D reconstruction with a single vehicle-mounted event camera. The method approaches the performance obtained with regular cameras, and eventually outperforms in challenging visual conditions.
A Hierarchical Dual Model of Environment- and Place-Specific Utility for Visual Place Recognition
Visual Place Recognition (VPR) approaches have typically attempted to match places by identifying visual cues, image regions or landmarks that have high ``utility'' in identifying a specific place. But this concept of utility is not singular - rather it can take a range of forms. In this paper, we present a novel approach to deduce two key types of utility for VPR: the utility of visual cues `specific' to an environment, and to a particular place. We employ contrastive learning principles to estimate both the environment- and place-specific utility of Vector of Locally Aggregated Descriptors (VLAD) clusters in an unsupervised manner, which is then used to guide local feature matching through keypoint selection. By combining these two utility measures, our approach achieves state-of-the-art performance on three challenging benchmark datasets, while simultaneously reducing the required storage and compute time. We provide further analysis demonstrating that unsupervised cluster selection results in semantically meaningful results, that finer grained categorization often has higher utility for VPR than high level semantic categorization (e.g. building, road), and characterise how these two utility measures vary across different places and environments. Source code is made publicly available at https://github.com/Nik-V9/HEAPUtil.
Learning Disentangled Representation Implicitly via Transformer for Occluded Person Re-Identification
Person re-identification (re-ID) under various occlusions has been a long-standing challenge as person images with different types of occlusions often suffer from misalignment in image matching and ranking. Most existing methods tackle this challenge by aligning spatial features of body parts according to external semantic cues or feature similarities but this alignment approach is complicated and sensitive to noises. We design DRL-Net, a disentangled representation learning network that handles occluded re-ID without requiring strict person image alignment or any additional supervision. Leveraging transformer architectures, DRL-Net achieves alignment-free re-ID via global reasoning of local features of occluded person images. It measures image similarity by automatically disentangling the representation of undefined semantic components, e.g., human body parts or obstacles, under the guidance of semantic preference object queries in the transformer. In addition, we design a decorrelation constraint in the transformer decoder and impose it over object queries for better focus on different semantic components. To better eliminate interference from occlusions, we design a contrast feature learning technique (CFL) for better separation of occlusion features and discriminative ID features. Extensive experiments over occluded and holistic re-ID benchmarks (Occluded-DukeMTMC, Market1501 and DukeMTMC) show that the DRL-Net achieves superior re-ID performance consistently and outperforms the state-of-the-art by large margins for Occluded-DukeMTMC.
Aerial Map-Based Navigation Using Semantic Segmentation and Pattern Matching
This paper proposes a novel approach to map-based navigation system for unmanned aircraft. The proposed system attempts label-to-label matching, not image-to-image matching, between aerial images and a map database. The ground objects can be labelled by deep learning approaches and the configuration of the objects is used to find the corresponding location in the map database. The use of the deep learning technique as a tool for extracting high-level features reduces the image-based localization problem to a pattern matching problem. This paper proposes a pattern matching algorithm that does not require altitude information or a camera model to estimate the absolute horizontal position. The feasibility analysis with simulated images shows the proposed map-based navigation can be realized with the proposed pattern matching algorithm and it is able to provide positions given the labelled objects.
Geometric Processing for Image-based 3D Object Modeling
Image-based 3D object modeling refers to the process of converting raw optical images to 3D digital representations of the objects. Very often, such models are desired to be dimensionally true, semantically labeled with photorealistic appearance (reality-based modeling). Laser scanning was deemed as the standard (and direct) way to obtaining highly accurate 3D measurements of objects, while one would have to abide the high acquisition cost and its unavailability on some of the platforms. Nowadays the image-based methods backboned by the recently developed advanced dense image matching algorithms and geo-referencing paradigms, are becoming the dominant approaches, due to its high flexibility, availability and low cost. The largely automated geometric processing of images in a 3D object reconstruction workflow, from ordered/unordered raw imagery to textured meshes, is becoming a critical part of the reality-based 3D modeling. This article summarizes the overall geometric processing workflow, with focuses on introducing the state-of-the-art methods of three major components of geometric processing: 1) geo-referencing; 2) Image dense matching 3) texture mapping. Finally, we will draw conclusions and share our outlooks of the topics discussed in this article.
Global and Local Contrastive Self-Supervised Learning for Semantic Segmentation of HR Remote Sensing Images
Supervised learning for semantic segmentation requires a large number of labeled samples, which is difficult to obtain in the field of remote sensing. Self-supervised learning (SSL), can be used to solve such problems by pre-training a general model with a large number of unlabeled images and then fine-tuning it on a downstream task with very few labeled samples. Contrastive learning is a typical method of SSL that can learn general invariant features. However, most existing contrastive learning methods are designed for classification tasks to obtain an image-level representation, which may be suboptimal for semantic segmentation tasks requiring pixel-level discrimination. Therefore, we propose a global style and local matching contrastive learning network (GLCNet) for remote sensing image semantic segmentation. Specifically, 1) the global style contrastive learning module is used to better learn an image-level representation, as we consider that style features can better represent the overall image features. 2) The local features matching contrastive learning module is designed to learn representations of local regions, which is beneficial for semantic segmentation. The experimental results show that our method mostly outperforms SOTA self-supervised methods and the ImageNet pre-training method. Specifically, with 1\% annotation from the original dataset, our approach improves Kappa by 6\% on the ISPRS Potsdam dataset relative to the existing baseline. Moreover, our method outperforms supervised learning methods when there are some differences between the datasets of upstream tasks and downstream tasks. Since SSL could directly learn the essential characteristics of data from unlabeled data, which is easy to obtain in the remote sensing field, this may be of great significance for tasks such as global mapping. The source code is available at https://github.com/GeoX-Lab/G-RSIM.
Visual Correspondence Hallucination
Given a pair of partially overlapping source and target images and a keypoint in the source image, the keypoint's correspondent in the target image can be either visible, occluded or outside the field of view. Local feature matching methods are only able to identify the correspondent's location when it is visible, while humans can also hallucinate its location when it is occluded or outside the field of view through geometric reasoning. In this paper, we bridge this gap by training a network to output a peaked probability distribution over the correspondent's location, regardless of this correspondent being visible, occluded, or outside the field of view. We experimentally demonstrate that this network is indeed able to hallucinate correspondences on pairs of images captured in scenes that were not seen at training-time. We also apply this network to an absolute camera pose estimation problem and find it is significantly more robust than state-of-the-art local feature matching-based competitors.
DFM: A Performance Baseline for Deep Feature Matching
A novel image matching method is proposed that utilizes learned features extracted by an off-the-shelf deep neural network to obtain a promising performance. The proposed method uses pre-trained VGG architecture as a feature extractor and does not require any additional training specific to improve matching. Inspired by well-established concepts in the psychology area, such as the Mental Rotation paradigm, an initial warping is performed as a result of a preliminary geometric transformation estimate. These estimates are simply based on dense matching of nearest neighbors at the terminal layer of VGG network outputs of the images to be matched. After this initial alignment, the same approach is repeated again between reference and aligned images in a hierarchical manner to reach a good localization and matching performance. Our algorithm achieves 0.57 and 0.80 overall scores in terms of Mean Matching Accuracy (MMA) for 1 pixel and 2 pixels thresholds respectively on Hpatches dataset, which indicates a better performance than the state-of-the-art.
Towards Light-weight and Real-time Line Segment Detection
Previous deep learning-based line segment detection (LSD) suffers from the immense model size and high computational cost for line prediction. This constrains them from real-time inference on computationally restricted environments. In this paper, we propose a real-time and light-weight line segment detector for resource-constrained environments named Mobile LSD (M-LSD). We design an extremely efficient LSD architecture by minimizing the backbone network and removing the typical multi-module process for line prediction found in previous methods. To maintain competitive performance with a light-weight network, we present novel training schemes: Segments of Line segment (SoL) augmentation, matching and geometric loss. SoL augmentation splits a line segment into multiple subparts, which are used to provide auxiliary line data during the training process. Moreover, the matching and geometric loss allow a model to capture additional geometric cues. Compared with TP-LSD-Lite, previously the best real-time LSD method, our model (M-LSD-tiny) achieves competitive performance with 2.5% of model size and an increase of 130.5% in inference speed on GPU. Furthermore, our model runs at 56.8 FPS and 48.6 FPS on the latest Android and iPhone mobile devices, respectively. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first real-time deep LSD available on mobile devices. Our code is available.
TransMatcher: Deep Image Matching Through Transformers for Generalizable Person Re-identification
Transformers have recently gained increasing attention in computer vision. However, existing studies mostly use Transformers for feature representation learning, e.g. for image classification and dense predictions, and the generalizability of Transformers is unknown. In this work, we further investigate the possibility of applying Transformers for image matching and metric learning given pairs of images. We find that the Vision Transformer (ViT) and the vanilla Transformer with decoders are not adequate for image matching due to their lack of image-to-image attention. Thus, we further design two naive solutions, i.e. query-gallery concatenation in ViT, and query-gallery cross-attention in the vanilla Transformer. The latter improves the performance, but it is still limited. This implies that the attention mechanism in Transformers is primarily designed for global feature aggregation, which is not naturally suitable for image matching. Accordingly, we propose a new simplified decoder, which drops the full attention implementation with the softmax weighting, keeping only the query-key similarity computation. Additionally, global max pooling and a multilayer perceptron (MLP) head are applied to decode the matching result. This way, the simplified decoder is computationally more efficient, while at the same time more effective for image matching. The proposed method, called TransMatcher, achieves state-of-the-art performance in generalizable person re-identification, with up to 6.1% and 5.7% performance gains in Rank-1 and mAP, respectively, on several popular datasets. Code is available at https://github.com/ShengcaiLiao/QAConv.
Analysis and Mitigations of Reverse Engineering Attacks on Local Feature Descriptors
As autonomous driving and augmented reality evolve, a practical concern is data privacy. In particular, these applications rely on localization based on user images. The widely adopted technology uses local feature descriptors, which are derived from the images and it was long thought that they could not be reverted back. However, recent work has demonstrated that under certain conditions reverse engineering attacks are possible and allow an adversary to reconstruct RGB images. This poses a potential risk to user privacy. We take this a step further and model potential adversaries using a privacy threat model. Subsequently, we show under controlled conditions a reverse engineering attack on sparse feature maps and analyze the vulnerability of popular descriptors including FREAK, SIFT and SOSNet. Finally, we evaluate potential mitigation techniques that select a subset of descriptors to carefully balance privacy reconstruction risk while preserving image matching accuracy; our results show that similar accuracy can be obtained when revealing less information.
Spatio-Temporal Matching for Siamese Visual Tracking
Similarity matching is a core operation in Siamese trackers. Most Siamese trackers carry out similarity learning via cross correlation that originates from the image matching field. However, unlike 2-D image matching, the matching network in object tracking requires 4-D information (height, width, channel and time). Cross correlation neglects the information from channel and time dimensions, and thus produces ambiguous matching. This paper proposes a spatio-temporal matching process to thoroughly explore the capability of 4-D matching in space (height, width and channel) and time. In spatial matching, we introduce a space-variant channel-guided correlation (SVC-Corr) to recalibrate channel-wise feature responses for each spatial location, which can guide the generation of the target-aware matching features. In temporal matching, we investigate the time-domain context relations of the target and the background and develop an aberrance repressed module (ARM). By restricting the abrupt alteration in the interframe response maps, our ARM can clearly suppress aberrances and thus enables more robust and accurate object tracking. Furthermore, a novel anchor-free tracking framework is presented to accommodate these innovations. Experiments on challenging benchmarks including OTB100, VOT2018, VOT2020, GOT-10k, and LaSOT demonstrate the state-of-the-art performance of the proposed method.
CombOptNet: Fit the Right NP-Hard Problem by Learning Integer Programming Constraints
Bridging logical and algorithmic reasoning with modern machine learning techniques is a fundamental challenge with potentially transformative impact. On the algorithmic side, many NP-hard problems can be expressed as integer programs, in which the constraints play the role of their "combinatorial specification." In this work, we aim to integrate integer programming solvers into neural network architectures as layers capable of learning both the cost terms and the constraints. The resulting end-to-end trainable architectures jointly extract features from raw data and solve a suitable (learned) combinatorial problem with state-of-the-art integer programming solvers. We demonstrate the potential of such layers with an extensive performance analysis on synthetic data and with a demonstration on a competitive computer vision keypoint matching benchmark.
Instance segmentation of fallen trees in aerial color infrared imagery using active multi-contour evolution with fully convolutional network-based intensity priors
In this paper, we introduce a framework for segmenting instances of a common object class by multiple active contour evolution over semantic segmentation maps of images obtained through fully convolutional networks. The contour evolution is cast as an energy minimization problem, where the aggregate energy functional incorporates a data fit term, an explicit shape model, and accounts for object overlap. Efficient solution neighborhood operators are proposed, enabling optimization through metaheuristics such as simulated annealing. We instantiate the proposed framework in the context of segmenting individual fallen stems from high-resolution aerial multispectral imagery. We validated our approach on 3 real-world scenes of varying complexity. The test plots were situated in regions of the Bavarian Forest National Park, Germany, which sustained a heavy bark beetle infestation. Evaluations were performed on both the polygon and line segment level, showing that the multi-contour segmentation can achieve up to 0.93 precision and 0.82 recall. An improvement of up to 7 percentage points (pp) in recall and 6 in precision compared to an iterative sample consensus line segment detection was achieved. Despite the simplicity of the applied shape parametrization, an explicit shape model incorporated into the energy function improved the results by up to 4 pp of recall. Finally, we show the importance of using a deep learning based semantic segmentation method as the basis for individual stem detection. Our method is a step towards increased accessibility of automatic fallen tree mapping, due to higher cost efficiency of aerial imagery acquisition compared to laser scanning. The precise fallen tree maps could be further used as a basis for plant and animal habitat modeling, studies on carbon sequestration as well as soil quality in forest ecosystems.
ELSD: Efficient Line Segment Detector and Descriptor
We present the novel Efficient Line Segment Detector and Descriptor (ELSD) to simultaneously detect line segments and extract their descriptors in an image. Unlike the traditional pipelines that conduct detection and description separately, ELSD utilizes a shared feature extractor for both detection and description, to provide the essential line features to the higher-level tasks like SLAM and image matching in real time. First, we design the one-stage compact model, and propose to use the mid-point, angle and length as the minimal representation of line segment, which also guarantees the center-symmetry. The non-centerness suppression is proposed to filter out the fragmented line segments caused by lines' intersections. The fine offset prediction is designed to refine the mid-point localization. Second, the line descriptor branch is integrated with the detector branch, and the two branches are jointly trained in an end-to-end manner. In the experiments, the proposed ELSD achieves the state-of-the-art performance on the Wireframe dataset and YorkUrban dataset, in both accuracy and efficiency. The line description ability of ELSD also outperforms the previous works on the line matching task.
Perceptual Loss for Robust Unsupervised Homography Estimation
Homography estimation is often an indispensable step in many computer vision tasks. The existing approaches, however, are not robust to illumination and/or larger viewpoint changes. In this paper, we propose bidirectional implicit Homography Estimation (biHomE) loss for unsupervised homography estimation. biHomE minimizes the distance in the feature space between the warped image from the source viewpoint and the corresponding image from the target viewpoint. Since we use a fixed pre-trained feature extractor and the only learnable component of our framework is the homography network, we effectively decouple the homography estimation from representation learning. We use an additional photometric distortion step in the synthetic COCO dataset generation to better represent the illumination variation of the real-world scenarios. We show that biHomE achieves state-of-the-art performance on synthetic COCO dataset, which is also comparable or better compared to supervised approaches. Furthermore, the empirical results demonstrate the robustness of our approach to illumination variation compared to existing methods.
See through Gradients: Image Batch Recovery via GradInversion
Training deep neural networks requires gradient estimation from data batches to update parameters. Gradients per parameter are averaged over a set of data and this has been presumed to be safe for privacy-preserving training in joint, collaborative, and federated learning applications. Prior work only showed the possibility of recovering input data given gradients under very restrictive conditions - a single input point, or a network with no non-linearities, or a small 32x32 px input batch. Therefore, averaging gradients over larger batches was thought to be safe. In this work, we introduce GradInversion, using which input images from a larger batch (8 - 48 images) can also be recovered for large networks such as ResNets (50 layers), on complex datasets such as ImageNet (1000 classes, 224x224 px). We formulate an optimization task that converts random noise into natural images, matching gradients while regularizing image fidelity. We also propose an algorithm for target class label recovery given gradients. We further propose a group consistency regularization framework, where multiple agents starting from different random seeds work together to find an enhanced reconstruction of original data batch. We show that gradients encode a surprisingly large amount of information, such that all the individual images can be recovered with high fidelity via GradInversion, even for complex datasets, deep networks, and large batch sizes.
Localization of Autonomous Vehicles: Proof of Concept for A Computer Vision Approach
This paper introduces a visual-based localization method for autonomous vehicles (AVs) that operate in the absence of any complicated hardware system but a single camera. Visual localization refers to techniques that aim to find the location of an object based on visual information of its surrounding area. The problem of localization has been of interest for many years. However, visual localization is a relatively new subject in the literature of transportation. Moreover, the inevitable application of this type of localization in the context of autonomous vehicles demands special attention from the transportation community to this problem. This study proposes a two-step localization method that requires a database of geotagged images and a camera mounted on a vehicle that can take pictures while the car is moving. The first step which is image retrieval uses SIFT local feature descriptor to find an initial location for the vehicle using image matching. The next step is to utilize the Kalman filter to estimate a more accurate location for the vehicle as it is moving. All stages of the introduced method are implemented as a complete system using different Python libraries. The proposed system is tested on the KITTI dataset and has shown an average accuracy of 2 meters in finding the final location of the vehicle.
A Detector-oblivious Multi-arm Network for Keypoint Matching
This paper presents a matching network to establish point correspondence between images. We propose a Multi-Arm Network (MAN) to learn region overlap and depth, which can greatly improve the keypoint matching robustness while bringing little computational cost during the inference stage. Another design that makes this framework different from many existing learning based pipelines that require re-training when a different keypoint detector is adopted, our network can directly work with different keypoint detectors without such a time-consuming re-training process. Comprehensive experiments conducted on outdoor and indoor datasets demonstrated that our proposed MAN outperforms state-of-the-art methods. Code will be made publicly available.
LoFTR: Detector-Free Local Feature Matching with Transformers
We present a novel method for local image feature matching. Instead of performing image feature detection, description, and matching sequentially, we propose to first establish pixel-wise dense matches at a coarse level and later refine the good matches at a fine level. In contrast to dense methods that use a cost volume to search correspondences, we use self and cross attention layers in Transformer to obtain feature descriptors that are conditioned on both images. The global receptive field provided by Transformer enables our method to produce dense matches in low-texture areas, where feature detectors usually struggle to produce repeatable interest points. The experiments on indoor and outdoor datasets show that LoFTR outperforms state-of-the-art methods by a large margin. LoFTR also ranks first on two public benchmarks of visual localization among the published methods.
DF^2AM: Dual-level Feature Fusion and Affinity Modeling for RGB-Infrared Cross-modality Person Re-identification
RGB-infrared person re-identification is a challenging task due to the intra-class variations and cross-modality discrepancy. Existing works mainly focus on learning modality-shared global representations by aligning image styles or feature distributions across modalities, while local feature from body part and relationships between person images are largely neglected. In this paper, we propose a Dual-level (i.e., local and global) Feature Fusion (DF^2) module by learning attention for discriminative feature from local to global manner. In particular, the attention for a local feature is determined locally, i.e., applying a learned transformation function on itself. Meanwhile, to further mining the relationships between global features from person images, we propose an Affinities Modeling (AM) module to obtain the optimal intra- and inter-modality image matching. Specifically, AM employes intra-class compactness and inter-class separability in the sample similarities as supervised information to model the affinities between intra- and inter-modality samples. Experimental results show that our proposed method outperforms state-of-the-arts by large margins on two widely used cross-modality re-ID datasets SYSU-MM01 and RegDB, respectively.
Matched sample selection with GANs for mitigating attribute confounding
Measuring biases of vision systems with respect to protected attributes like gender and age is critical as these systems gain widespread use in society. However, significant correlations between attributes in benchmark datasets make it difficult to separate algorithmic bias from dataset bias. To mitigate such attribute confounding during bias analysis, we propose a matching approach that selects a subset of images from the full dataset with balanced attribute distributions across protected attributes. Our matching approach first projects real images onto a generative adversarial network (GAN)'s latent space in a manner that preserves semantic attributes. It then finds image matches in this latent space across a chosen protected attribute, yielding a dataset where semantic and perceptual attributes are balanced across the protected attribute. We validate projection and matching strategies with qualitative, quantitative, and human annotation experiments. We demonstrate our work in the context of gender bias in multiple open-source facial-recognition classifiers and find that bias persists after removing key confounders via matching. Code and documentation to reproduce the results here and apply the methods to new data is available at https://github.com/csinva/matching-with-gans .
Paying Attention to Multiscale Feature Maps in Multimodal Image Matching
We propose an attention-based approach for multimodal image patch matching using a Transformer encoder attending to the feature maps of a multiscale Siamese CNN. Our encoder is shown to efficiently aggregate multiscale image embeddings while emphasizing task-specific appearance-invariant image cues. We also introduce an attention-residual architecture, using a residual connection bypassing the encoder. This additional learning signal facilitates end-to-end training from scratch. Our approach is experimentally shown to achieve new state-of-the-art accuracy on both multimodal and single modality benchmarks, illustrating its general applicability. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first successful implementation of the Transformer encoder architecture to the multimodal image patch matching task.
RoRD: Rotation-Robust Descriptors and Orthographic Views for Local Feature Matching
The use of local detectors and descriptors in typical computer vision pipelines work well until variations in viewpoint and appearance change become extreme. Past research in this area has typically focused on one of two approaches to this challenge: the use of projections into spaces more suitable for feature matching under extreme viewpoint changes, and attempting to learn features that are inherently more robust to viewpoint change. In this paper, we present a novel framework that combines learning of invariant descriptors through data augmentation and orthographic viewpoint projection. We propose rotation-robust local descriptors, learnt through training data augmentation based on rotation homographies, and a correspondence ensemble technique that combines vanilla feature correspondences with those obtained through rotation-robust features. Using a range of benchmark datasets as well as contributing a new bespoke dataset for this research domain, we evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed approach on key tasks including pose estimation and visual place recognition. Our system outperforms a range of baseline and state-of-the-art techniques, including enabling higher levels of place recognition precision across opposing place viewpoints and achieves practically-useful performance levels even under extreme viewpoint changes.
The QXS-SAROPT Dataset for Deep Learning in SAR-Optical Data Fusion
Deep learning techniques have made an increasing impact on the field of remote sensing. However, deep neural networks based fusion of multimodal data from different remote sensors with heterogenous characteristics has not been fully explored, due to the lack of availability of big amounts of perfectly aligned multi-sensor image data with diverse scenes of high resolutions, especially for synthetic aperture radar (SAR) data and optical imagery. To promote the development of deep learning based SAR-optical fusion approaches, we release the QXS-SAROPT dataset, which contains 20,000 pairs of SAR-optical image patches. We obtain the SAR patches from SAR satellite GaoFen-3 images and the optical patches from Google Earth images. These images cover three port cities: San Diego, Shanghai and Qingdao. Here, we present a detailed introduction of the construction of the dataset, and show its two representative exemplary applications, namely SAR-optical image matching and SAR ship detection boosted by cross-modal information from optical images. As a large open SAR-optical dataset with multiple scenes of a high resolution, we believe QXS-SAROPT will be of potential value for further research in SAR-optical data fusion technology based on deep learning.
Iterative Shrinking for Referring Expression Grounding Using Deep Reinforcement Learning
In this paper, we are tackling the proposal-free referring expression grounding task, aiming at localizing the target object according to a query sentence, without relying on off-the-shelf object proposals. Existing proposal-free methods employ a query-image matching branch to select the highest-score point in the image feature map as the target box center, with its width and height predicted by another branch. Such methods, however, fail to utilize the contextual relation between the target and reference objects, and lack interpretability on its reasoning procedure. To solve these problems, we propose an iterative shrinking mechanism to localize the target, where the shrinking direction is decided by a reinforcement learning agent, with all contents within the current image patch comprehensively considered. Beside, the sequential shrinking process enables to demonstrate the reasoning about how to iteratively find the target. Experiments show that the proposed method boosts the accuracy by 4.32% against the previous state-of-the-art (SOTA) method on the RefCOCOg dataset, where query sentences are long and complex, with many targets referred by other reference objects.
Matching Algorithms: Fundamentals, Applications and Challenges
Matching plays a vital role in the rational allocation of resources in many areas, ranging from market operation to people's daily lives. In economics, the term matching theory is coined for pairing two agents in a specific market to reach a stable or optimal state. In computer science, all branches of matching problems have emerged, such as the question-answer matching in information retrieval, user-item matching in a recommender system, and entity-relation matching in the knowledge graph. A preference list is the core element during a matching process, which can either be obtained directly from the agents or generated indirectly by prediction. Based on the preference list access, matching problems are divided into two categories, i.e., explicit matching and implicit matching. In this paper, we first introduce the matching theory's basic models and algorithms in explicit matching. The existing methods for coping with various matching problems in implicit matching are reviewed, such as retrieval matching, user-item matching, entity-relation matching, and image matching. Furthermore, we look into representative applications in these areas, including marriage and labor markets in explicit matching and several similarity-based matching problems in implicit matching. Finally, this survey paper concludes with a discussion of open issues and promising future directions in the field of matching.
