Infinite Photorealistic Worlds using Procedural Generation
We introduce Infinigen, a procedural generator of photorealistic 3D scenes of the natural world. Infinigen is entirely procedural: every asset, from shape to texture, is generated from scratch via randomized mathematical rules, using no external source and allowing infinite variation and composition. Infinigen offers broad coverage of objects and scenes in the natural world including plants, animals, terrains, and natural phenomena such as fire, cloud, rain, and snow. Infinigen can be used to generate unlimited, diverse training data for a wide range of computer vision tasks including object detection, semantic segmentation, optical flow, and 3D reconstruction. We expect Infinigen to be a useful resource for computer vision research and beyond. Please visit https://infinigen.org for videos, code and pre-generated data.
NAVI: Category-Agnostic Image Collections with High-Quality 3D Shape and Pose Annotations
Recent advances in neural reconstruction enable high-quality 3D object reconstruction from casually captured image collections. Current techniques mostly analyze their progress on relatively simple image collections where Structure-from-Motion (SfM) techniques can provide ground-truth (GT) camera poses. We note that SfM techniques tend to fail on in-the-wild image collections such as image search results with varying backgrounds and illuminations. To enable systematic research progress on 3D reconstruction from casual image captures, we propose NAVI: a new dataset of category-agnostic image collections of objects with high-quality 3D scans along with per-image 2D-3D alignments providing near-perfect GT camera parameters. These 2D-3D alignments allow us to extract accurate derivative annotations such as dense pixel correspondences, depth and segmentation maps. We demonstrate the use of NAVI image collections on different problem settings and show that NAVI enables more thorough evaluations that were not possible with existing datasets. We believe NAVI is beneficial for systematic research progress on 3D reconstruction and correspondence estimation. Project page: https://navidataset.github.io
Enhancing Neural Rendering Methods with Image Augmentations
Faithfully reconstructing 3D geometry and generating novel views of scenes are critical tasks in 3D computer vision. Despite the widespread use of image augmentations across computer vision applications, their potential remains underexplored when learning neural rendering methods (NRMs) for 3D scenes. This paper presents a comprehensive analysis of the use of image augmentations in NRMs, where we explore different augmentation strategies. We found that introducing image augmentations during training presents challenges such as geometric and photometric inconsistencies for learning NRMs from images. Specifically, geometric inconsistencies arise from alterations in shapes, positions, and orientations from the augmentations, disrupting spatial cues necessary for accurate 3D reconstruction. On the other hand, photometric inconsistencies arise from changes in pixel intensities introduced by the augmentations, affecting the ability to capture the underlying 3D structures of the scene. We alleviate these issues by focusing on color manipulations and introducing learnable appearance embeddings that allow NRMs to explain away photometric variations. Our experiments demonstrate the benefits of incorporating augmentations when learning NRMs, including improved photometric quality and surface reconstruction, as well as enhanced robustness against data quality issues, such as reduced training data and image degradations.
Learning to Predict Scene-Level Implicit 3D from Posed RGBD Data
We introduce a method that can learn to predict scene-level implicit functions for 3D reconstruction from posed RGBD data. At test time, our system maps a previously unseen RGB image to a 3D reconstruction of a scene via implicit functions. While implicit functions for 3D reconstruction have often been tied to meshes, we show that we can train one using only a set of posed RGBD images. This setting may help 3D reconstruction unlock the sea of accelerometer+RGBD data that is coming with new phones. Our system, D2-DRDF, can match and sometimes outperform current methods that use mesh supervision and shows better robustness to sparse data.
Viewset Diffusion: (0-)Image-Conditioned 3D Generative Models from 2D Data
We present Viewset Diffusion: a framework for training image-conditioned 3D generative models from 2D data. Image-conditioned 3D generative models allow us to address the inherent ambiguity in single-view 3D reconstruction. Given one image of an object, there is often more than one possible 3D volume that matches the input image, because a single image never captures all sides of an object. Deterministic models are inherently limited to producing one possible reconstruction and therefore make mistakes in ambiguous settings. Modelling distributions of 3D shapes is challenging because 3D ground truth data is often not available. We propose to solve the issue of data availability by training a diffusion model which jointly denoises a multi-view image set.We constrain the output of Viewset Diffusion models to a single 3D volume per image set, guaranteeing consistent geometry. Training is done through reconstruction losses on renderings, allowing training with only three images per object. Our design of architecture and training scheme allows our model to perform 3D generation and generative, ambiguity-aware single-view reconstruction in a feed-forward manner. Project page: szymanowiczs.github.io/viewset-diffusion.
SMART: Spatial Modeling Algorithms for Reaction and Transport
Recent advances in microscopy and 3D reconstruction methods have allowed for characterization of cellular morphology in unprecedented detail, including the irregular geometries of intracellular subcompartments such as membrane-bound organelles. These geometries are now compatible with predictive modeling of cellular function. Biological cells respond to stimuli through sequences of chemical reactions generally referred to as cell signaling pathways. The propagation and reaction of chemical substances in cell signaling pathways can be represented by coupled nonlinear systems of reaction-transport equations. These reaction pathways include numerous chemical species that react across boundaries or interfaces (e.g., the cell membrane and membranes of organelles within the cell) and domains (e.g., the bulk cell volume and the interior of organelles). Such systems of multi-dimensional partial differential equations (PDEs) are notoriously difficult to solve because of their high dimensionality, non-linearities, strong coupling, stiffness, and potential instabilities. In this work, we describe Spatial Modeling Algorithms for Reactions and Transport (SMART), a high-performance finite-element-based simulation package for model specification and numerical simulation of spatially-varying reaction-transport processes. SMART is based on the FEniCS finite element library, provides a symbolic representation framework for specifying reaction pathways, and supports geometries in 2D and 3D including large and irregular cell geometries obtained from modern ultrastructural characterization methods.
Reconstructing Heterogeneous Cryo-EM Molecular Structures by Decomposing Them into Polymer Chains
Cryogenic electron microscopy (cryo-EM) has transformed structural biology by allowing to reconstruct 3D biomolecular structures up to near-atomic resolution. However, the 3D reconstruction process remains challenging, as the 3D structures may exhibit substantial shape variations, while the 2D image acquisition suffers from a low signal-to-noise ratio, requiring to acquire very large datasets that are time-consuming to process. Current reconstruction methods are precise but computationally expensive, or faster but lack a physically-plausible model of large molecular shape variations. To fill this gap, we propose CryoChains that encodes large deformations of biomolecules via rigid body transformation of their polymer instances (chains), while representing their finer shape variations with the normal mode analysis framework of biophysics. Our synthetic data experiments on the human $\text{GABA}_{\text{B}}$ and heat shock protein show that CryoChains gives a biophysically-grounded quantification of the heterogeneous conformations of biomolecules, while reconstructing their 3D molecular structures at an improved resolution compared to the current fastest, interpretable deep learning method.
Fast light-field 3D microscopy with out-of-distribution detection and adaptation through Conditional Normalizing Flows
Real-time 3D fluorescence microscopy is crucial for the spatiotemporal analysis of live organisms, such as neural activity monitoring. The eXtended field-of-view light field microscope (XLFM), also known as Fourier light field microscope, is a straightforward, single snapshot solution to achieve this. The XLFM acquires spatial-angular information in a single camera exposure. In a subsequent step, a 3D volume can be algorithmically reconstructed, making it exceptionally well-suited for real-time 3D acquisition and potential analysis. Unfortunately, traditional reconstruction methods (like deconvolution) require lengthy processing times (0.0220 Hz), hampering the speed advantages of the XLFM. Neural network architectures can overcome the speed constraints at the expense of lacking certainty metrics, which renders them untrustworthy for the biomedical realm. This work proposes a novel architecture to perform fast 3D reconstructions of live immobilized zebrafish neural activity based on a conditional normalizing flow. It reconstructs volumes at 8 Hz spanning 512x512x96 voxels, and it can be trained in under two hours due to the small dataset requirements (10 image-volume pairs). Furthermore, normalizing flows allow for exact Likelihood computation, enabling distribution monitoring, followed by out-of-distribution detection and retraining of the system when a novel sample is detected. We evaluate the proposed method on a cross-validation approach involving multiple in-distribution samples (genetically identical zebrafish) and various out-of-distribution ones.
3D reconstruction using Structure for Motion
We are working towards 3D reconstruction of indoor spaces using a pair of HDR cameras in a stereo vision configuration mounted on an indoor mobile floor robot that captures various textures and spatial features as 2D images and this data is simultaneously utilized as a feed to our algorithm which will allow us to visualize the depth map.
NERFBK: A High-Quality Benchmark for NERF-Based 3D Reconstruction
This paper introduces a new real and synthetic dataset called NeRFBK specifically designed for testing and comparing NeRF-based 3D reconstruction algorithms. High-quality 3D reconstruction has significant potential in various fields, and advancements in image-based algorithms make it essential to evaluate new advanced techniques. However, gathering diverse data with precise ground truth is challenging and may not encompass all relevant applications. The NeRFBK dataset addresses this issue by providing multi-scale, indoor and outdoor datasets with high-resolution images and videos and camera parameters for testing and comparing NeRF-based algorithms. This paper presents the design and creation of the NeRFBK benchmark, various examples and application scenarios, and highlights its potential for advancing the field of 3D reconstruction.
Neural Haircut: Prior-Guided Strand-Based Hair Reconstruction
Generating realistic human 3D reconstructions using image or video data is essential for various communication and entertainment applications. While existing methods achieved impressive results for body and facial regions, realistic hair modeling still remains challenging due to its high mechanical complexity. This work proposes an approach capable of accurate hair geometry reconstruction at a strand level from a monocular video or multi-view images captured in uncontrolled lighting conditions. Our method has two stages, with the first stage performing joint reconstruction of coarse hair and bust shapes and hair orientation using implicit volumetric representations. The second stage then estimates a strand-level hair reconstruction by reconciling in a single optimization process the coarse volumetric constraints with hair strand and hairstyle priors learned from the synthetic data. To further increase the reconstruction fidelity, we incorporate image-based losses into the fitting process using a new differentiable renderer. The combined system, named Neural Haircut, achieves high realism and personalization of the reconstructed hairstyles.
2D Supervised Monocular 3D Object Detection by Global-to-Local 3D Reconstruction
With the advent of the big model era, the demand for data has become more important. Especially in monocular 3D object detection, expensive manual annotations potentially limit further developments. Existing works have investigated weakly supervised algorithms with the help of LiDAR modality to generate 3D pseudo labels, which cannot be applied to ordinary videos. In this paper, we propose a novel paradigm, termed as BA$^2$-Det, leveraging the idea of global-to-local 3D reconstruction for 2D supervised monocular 3D object detection. Specifically, we recover 3D structures from monocular videos by scene-level global reconstruction with global bundle adjustment (BA) and obtain object clusters by the DoubleClustering algorithm. Learning from completely reconstructed objects in global BA, GBA-Learner predicts pseudo labels for occluded objects. Finally, we train an LBA-Learner with object-centric local BA to generalize the generated 3D pseudo labels to moving objects. Experiments on the large-scale Waymo Open Dataset show that the performance of BA$^2$-Det is on par with the fully-supervised BA-Det trained with 10% videos and even outperforms some pioneer fully-supervised methods. We also show the great potential of BA$^2$-Det for detecting open-set 3D objects in complex scenes. The code will be made available. Project page: https://ba2det.site .
Enhance-NeRF: Multiple Performance Evaluation for Neural Radiance Fields
The quality of three-dimensional reconstruction is a key factor affecting the effectiveness of its application in areas such as virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR) technologies. Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) can generate realistic images from any viewpoint. It simultaneously reconstructs the shape, lighting, and materials of objects, and without surface defects, which breaks down the barrier between virtuality and reality. The potential spatial correspondences displayed by NeRF between reconstructed scenes and real-world scenes offer a wide range of practical applications possibilities. Despite significant progress in 3D reconstruction since NeRF were introduced, there remains considerable room for exploration and experimentation. NeRF-based models are susceptible to interference issues caused by colored "fog" noise. Additionally, they frequently encounter instabilities and failures while attempting to reconstruct unbounded scenes. Moreover, the model takes a significant amount of time to converge, making it even more challenging to use in such scenarios. Our approach, coined Enhance-NeRF, which adopts joint color to balance low and high reflectivity objects display, utilizes a decoding architecture with prior knowledge to improve recognition, and employs multi-layer performance evaluation mechanisms to enhance learning capacity. It achieves reconstruction of outdoor scenes within one hour under single-card condition. Based on experimental results, Enhance-NeRF partially enhances fitness capability and provides some support to outdoor scene reconstruction. The Enhance-NeRF method can be used as a plug-and-play component, making it easy to integrate with other NeRF-based models. The code is available at: https://github.com/TANQIanQ/Enhance-NeRF
BU-CVKit: Extendable Computer Vision Framework for Species Independent Tracking and Analysis
A major bottleneck of interdisciplinary computer vision (CV) research is the lack of a framework that eases the reuse and abstraction of state-of-the-art CV models by CV and non-CV researchers alike. We present here BU-CVKit, a computer vision framework that allows the creation of research pipelines with chainable Processors. The community can create plugins of their work for the framework, hence improving the re-usability, accessibility, and exposure of their work with minimal overhead. Furthermore, we provide MuSeqPose Kit, a user interface for the pose estimation package of BU-CVKit, which automatically scans for installed plugins and programmatically generates an interface for them based on the metadata provided by the user. It also provides software support for standard pose estimation features such as annotations, 3D reconstruction, reprojection, and camera calibration. Finally, we show examples of behavioral neuroscience pipelines created through the sample plugins created for our framework.
DiViNeT: 3D Reconstruction from Disparate Views via Neural Template Regularization
We present a volume rendering-based neural surface reconstruction method that takes as few as three disparate RGB images as input. Our key idea is to regularize the reconstruction, which is severely ill-posed and leaving significant gaps between the sparse views, by learning a set of neural templates that act as surface priors. Our method coined DiViNet, operates in two stages. The first stage learns the templates, in the form of 3D Gaussian functions, across different scenes, without 3D supervision. In the reconstruction stage, our predicted templates serve as anchors to help "stitch" the surfaces over sparse regions. We demonstrate that our approach is not only able to complete the surface geometry but also reconstructs surface details to a reasonable extent from few disparate input views. On the DTU and BlendedMVS datasets, our approach achieves the best reconstruction quality among existing methods in the presence of such sparse views, and performs on par, if not better, with competing methods when dense views are employed as inputs.
BeyondPixels: A Comprehensive Review of the Evolution of Neural Radiance Fields
Neural rendering combines ideas from classical computer graphics and machine learning to synthesize images from real-world observations. NeRF, short for Neural Radiance Fields, is a recent innovation that uses AI algorithms to create 3D objects from 2D images. By leveraging an interpolation approach, NeRF can produce new 3D reconstructed views of complicated scenes. Rather than directly restoring the whole 3D scene geometry, NeRF generates a volumetric representation called a ``radiance field,'' which is capable of creating color and density for every point within the relevant 3D space. The broad appeal and notoriety of NeRF make it imperative to examine the existing research on the topic comprehensively. While previous surveys on 3D rendering have primarily focused on traditional computer vision-based or deep learning-based approaches, only a handful of them discuss the potential of NeRF. However, such surveys have predominantly focused on NeRF's early contributions and have not explored its full potential. NeRF is a relatively new technique continuously being investigated for its capabilities and limitations. This survey reviews recent advances in NeRF and categorizes them according to their architectural designs, especially in the field of novel view synthesis.
Image Reconstruction for Accelerated MR Scan with Faster Fourier Convolutional Neural Networks
Partial scan is a common approach to accelerate Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) data acquisition in both 2D and 3D settings. However, accurately reconstructing images from partial scan data (i.e., incomplete k-space matrices) remains challenging due to lack of an effectively global receptive field in both spatial and k-space domains. To address this problem, we propose the following: (1) a novel convolutional operator called Faster Fourier Convolution (FasterFC) to replace the two consecutive convolution operations typically used in convolutional neural networks (e.g., U-Net, ResNet). Based on the spectral convolution theorem in Fourier theory, FasterFC employs alternating kernels of size 1 in 3D case) in different domains to extend the dual-domain receptive field to the global and achieves faster calculation speed than traditional Fast Fourier Convolution (FFC). (2) A 2D accelerated MRI method, FasterFC-End-to-End-VarNet, which uses FasterFC to improve the sensitivity maps and reconstruction quality. (3) A multi-stage 3D accelerated MRI method called FasterFC-based Single-to-group Network (FAS-Net) that utilizes a single-to-group algorithm to guide k-space domain reconstruction, followed by FasterFC-based cascaded convolutional neural networks to expand the effective receptive field in the dual-domain. Experimental results on the fastMRI and Stanford MRI Data datasets demonstrate that FasterFC improves the quality of both 2D and 3D reconstruction. Moreover, FAS-Net, as a 3D high-resolution multi-coil (eight) accelerated MRI method, achieves superior reconstruction performance in both qualitative and quantitative results compared with state-of-the-art 2D and 3D methods.
Single-Stage 3D Geometry-Preserving Depth Estimation Model Training on Dataset Mixtures with Uncalibrated Stereo Data
Nowadays, robotics, AR, and 3D modeling applications attract considerable attention to single-view depth estimation (SVDE) as it allows estimating scene geometry from a single RGB image. Recent works have demonstrated that the accuracy of an SVDE method hugely depends on the diversity and volume of the training data. However, RGB-D datasets obtained via depth capturing or 3D reconstruction are typically small, synthetic datasets are not photorealistic enough, and all these datasets lack diversity. The large-scale and diverse data can be sourced from stereo images or stereo videos from the web. Typically being uncalibrated, stereo data provides disparities up to unknown shift (geometrically incomplete data), so stereo-trained SVDE methods cannot recover 3D geometry. It was recently shown that the distorted point clouds obtained with a stereo-trained SVDE method can be corrected with additional point cloud modules (PCM) separately trained on the geometrically complete data. On the contrary, we propose GP$^{2}$, General-Purpose and Geometry-Preserving training scheme, and show that conventional SVDE models can learn correct shifts themselves without any post-processing, benefiting from using stereo data even in the geometry-preserving setting. Through experiments on different dataset mixtures, we prove that GP$^{2}$-trained models outperform methods relying on PCM in both accuracy and speed, and report the state-of-the-art results in the general-purpose geometry-preserving SVDE. Moreover, we show that SVDE models can learn to predict geometrically correct depth even when geometrically complete data comprises the minor part of the training set.
Computational 3D topographic microscopy from terabytes of data per sample
We present a large-scale computational 3D topographic microscope that enables 6-gigapixel profilometric 3D imaging at micron-scale resolution across $>$110 cm$^2$ areas over multi-millimeter axial ranges. Our computational microscope, termed STARCAM (Scanning Topographic All-in-focus Reconstruction with a Computational Array Microscope), features a parallelized, 54-camera architecture with 3-axis translation to capture, for each sample of interest, a multi-dimensional, 2.1-terabyte (TB) dataset, consisting of a total of 224,640 9.4-megapixel images. We developed a self-supervised neural network-based algorithm for 3D reconstruction and stitching that jointly estimates an all-in-focus photometric composite and 3D height map across the entire field of view, using multi-view stereo information and image sharpness as a focal metric. The memory-efficient, compressed differentiable representation offered by the neural network effectively enables joint participation of the entire multi-TB dataset during the reconstruction process. To demonstrate the broad utility of our new computational microscope, we applied STARCAM to a variety of decimeter-scale objects, with applications ranging from cultural heritage to industrial inspection.
Adaptive Robotic Information Gathering via Non-Stationary Gaussian Processes
Robotic Information Gathering (RIG) is a foundational research topic that answers how a robot (team) collects informative data to efficiently build an accurate model of an unknown target function under robot embodiment constraints. RIG has many applications, including but not limited to autonomous exploration and mapping, 3D reconstruction or inspection, search and rescue, and environmental monitoring. A RIG system relies on a probabilistic model's prediction uncertainty to identify critical areas for informative data collection. Gaussian Processes (GPs) with stationary kernels have been widely adopted for spatial modeling. However, real-world spatial data is typically non-stationary -- different locations do not have the same degree of variability. As a result, the prediction uncertainty does not accurately reveal prediction error, limiting the success of RIG algorithms. We propose a family of non-stationary kernels named Attentive Kernel (AK), which is simple, robust, and can extend any existing kernel to a non-stationary one. We evaluate the new kernel in elevation mapping tasks, where AK provides better accuracy and uncertainty quantification over the commonly used stationary kernels and the leading non-stationary kernels. The improved uncertainty quantification guides the downstream informative planner to collect more valuable data around the high-error area, further increasing prediction accuracy. A field experiment demonstrates that the proposed method can guide an Autonomous Surface Vehicle (ASV) to prioritize data collection in locations with significant spatial variations, enabling the model to characterize salient environmental features.
BUOL: A Bottom-Up Framework with Occupancy-aware Lifting for Panoptic 3D Scene Reconstruction From A Single Image
Understanding and modeling the 3D scene from a single image is a practical problem. A recent advance proposes a panoptic 3D scene reconstruction task that performs both 3D reconstruction and 3D panoptic segmentation from a single image. Although having made substantial progress, recent works only focus on top-down approaches that fill 2D instances into 3D voxels according to estimated depth, which hinders their performance by two ambiguities. (1) instance-channel ambiguity: The variable ids of instances in each scene lead to ambiguity during filling voxel channels with 2D information, confusing the following 3D refinement. (2) voxel-reconstruction ambiguity: 2D-to-3D lifting with estimated single view depth only propagates 2D information onto the surface of 3D regions, leading to ambiguity during the reconstruction of regions behind the frontal view surface. In this paper, we propose BUOL, a Bottom-Up framework with Occupancy-aware Lifting to address the two issues for panoptic 3D scene reconstruction from a single image. For instance-channel ambiguity, a bottom-up framework lifts 2D information to 3D voxels based on deterministic semantic assignments rather than arbitrary instance id assignments. The 3D voxels are then refined and grouped into 3D instances according to the predicted 2D instance centers. For voxel-reconstruction ambiguity, the estimated multi-plane occupancy is leveraged together with depth to fill the whole regions of things and stuff. Our method shows a tremendous performance advantage over state-of-the-art methods on synthetic dataset 3D-Front and real-world dataset Matterport3D. Code and models are available in https://github.com/chtsy/buol.
Humans in 4D: Reconstructing and Tracking Humans with Transformers
We present an approach to reconstruct humans and track them over time. At the core of our approach, we propose a fully "transformerized" version of a network for human mesh recovery. This network, HMR 2.0, advances the state of the art and shows the capability to analyze unusual poses that have in the past been difficult to reconstruct from single images. To analyze video, we use 3D reconstructions from HMR 2.0 as input to a tracking system that operates in 3D. This enables us to deal with multiple people and maintain identities through occlusion events. Our complete approach, 4DHumans, achieves state-of-the-art results for tracking people from monocular video. Furthermore, we demonstrate the effectiveness of HMR 2.0 on the downstream task of action recognition, achieving significant improvements over previous pose-based action recognition approaches. Our code and models are available on the project website: https://shubham-goel.github.io/4dhumans/.
Template-free Articulated Neural Point Clouds for Reposable View Synthesis
Dynamic Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) achieve remarkable visual quality when synthesizing novel views of time-evolving 3D scenes. However, the common reliance on backward deformation fields makes reanimation of the captured object poses challenging. Moreover, the state of the art dynamic models are often limited by low visual fidelity, long reconstruction time or specificity to narrow application domains. In this paper, we present a novel method utilizing a point-based representation and Linear Blend Skinning (LBS) to jointly learn a Dynamic NeRF and an associated skeletal model from even sparse multi-view video. Our forward-warping approach achieves state-of-the-art visual fidelity when synthesizing novel views and poses while significantly reducing the necessary learning time when compared to existing work. We demonstrate the versatility of our representation on a variety of articulated objects from common datasets and obtain reposable 3D reconstructions without the need of object-specific skeletal templates. Code will be made available at https://github.com/lukasuz/Articulated-Point-NeRF.
Synfeal: A Data-Driven Simulator for End-to-End Camera Localization
Collecting real-world data is often considered the bottleneck of Artificial Intelligence, stalling the research progress in several fields, one of which is camera localization. End-to-end camera localization methods are still outperformed by traditional methods, and we argue that the inconsistencies associated with the data collection techniques are restraining the potential of end-to-end methods. Inspired by the recent data-centric paradigm, we propose a framework that synthesizes large localization datasets based on realistic 3D reconstructions of the real world. Our framework, termed Synfeal: Synthetic from Real, is an open-source, data-driven simulator that synthesizes RGB images by moving a virtual camera through a realistic 3D textured mesh, while collecting the corresponding ground-truth camera poses. The results validate that the training of camera localization algorithms on datasets generated by Synfeal leads to better results when compared to datasets generated by state-of-the-art methods. Using Synfeal, we conducted the first analysis of the relationship between the size of the dataset and the performance of camera localization algorithms. Results show that the performance significantly increases with the dataset size. Our results also suggest that when a large localization dataset with high quality is available, training from scratch leads to better performances. Synfeal is publicly available at https://github.com/DanielCoelho112/synfeal.
VoxDet: Voxel Learning for Novel Instance Detection
Detecting unseen instances based on multi-view templates is a challenging problem due to its open-world nature. Traditional methodologies, which primarily rely on 2D representations and matching techniques, are often inadequate in handling pose variations and occlusions. To solve this, we introduce VoxDet, a pioneer 3D geometry-aware framework that fully utilizes the strong 3D voxel representation and reliable voxel matching mechanism. VoxDet first ingeniously proposes template voxel aggregation (TVA) module, effectively transforming multi-view 2D images into 3D voxel features. By leveraging associated camera poses, these features are aggregated into a compact 3D template voxel. In novel instance detection, this voxel representation demonstrates heightened resilience to occlusion and pose variations. We also discover that a 3D reconstruction objective helps to pre-train the 2D-3D mapping in TVA. Second, to quickly align with the template voxel, VoxDet incorporates a Query Voxel Matching (QVM) module. The 2D queries are first converted into their voxel representation with the learned 2D-3D mapping. We find that since the 3D voxel representations encode the geometry, we can first estimate the relative rotation and then compare the aligned voxels, leading to improved accuracy and efficiency. Exhaustive experiments are conducted on the demanding LineMod-Occlusion, YCB-video, and the newly built RoboTools benchmarks, where VoxDet outperforms various 2D baselines remarkably with 20% higher recall and faster speed. To the best of our knowledge, VoxDet is the first to incorporate implicit 3D knowledge for 2D detection tasks.
Look Ma, No Hands! Agent-Environment Factorization of Egocentric Videos
The analysis and use of egocentric videos for robotic tasks is made challenging by occlusion due to the hand and the visual mismatch between the human hand and a robot end-effector. In this sense, the human hand presents a nuisance. However, often hands also provide a valuable signal, e.g. the hand pose may suggest what kind of object is being held. In this work, we propose to extract a factored representation of the scene that separates the agent (human hand) and the environment. This alleviates both occlusion and mismatch while preserving the signal, thereby easing the design of models for downstream robotics tasks. At the heart of this factorization is our proposed Video Inpainting via Diffusion Model (VIDM) that leverages both a prior on real-world images (through a large-scale pre-trained diffusion model) and the appearance of the object in earlier frames of the video (through attention). Our experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of VIDM at improving inpainting quality on egocentric videos and the power of our factored representation for numerous tasks: object detection, 3D reconstruction of manipulated objects, and learning of reward functions, policies, and affordances from videos.
Domain-Adaptive Full-Face Gaze Estimation via Novel-View-Synthesis and Feature Disentanglement
Along with the recent development of deep neural networks, appearance-based gaze estimation has succeeded considerably when training and testing within the same domain. Compared to the within-domain task, the variance of different domains makes the cross-domain performance drop severely, preventing gaze estimation deployment in real-world applications. Among all the factors, ranges of head pose and gaze are believed to play a significant role in the final performance of gaze estimation, while collecting large ranges of data is expensive. This work proposes an effective model training pipeline consisting of a training data synthesis and a gaze estimation model for unsupervised domain adaptation. The proposed data synthesis leverages the single-image 3D reconstruction to expand the range of the head poses from the source domain without requiring a 3D facial shape dataset. To bridge the inevitable gap between synthetic and real images, we further propose an unsupervised domain adaptation method suitable for synthetic full-face data. We propose a disentangling autoencoder network to separate gaze-related features and introduce background augmentation consistency loss to utilize the characteristics of the synthetic source domain. Through comprehensive experiments, we show that the model only using monocular-reconstructed synthetic training data can perform comparably to real data with a large label range. Our proposed domain adaptation approach further improves the performance on multiple target domains. The code and data will be available at \url{https://github.com/ut-vision/AdaptiveGaze}.
Robust Category-Level 3D Pose Estimation from Synthetic Data
Obtaining accurate 3D object poses is vital for numerous computer vision applications, such as 3D reconstruction and scene understanding. However, annotating real-world objects is time-consuming and challenging. While synthetically generated training data is a viable alternative, the domain shift between real and synthetic data is a significant challenge. In this work, we aim to narrow the performance gap between models trained on synthetic data and few real images and fully supervised models trained on large-scale data. We achieve this by approaching the problem from two perspectives: 1) We introduce SyntheticP3D, a new synthetic dataset for object pose estimation generated from CAD models and enhanced with a novel algorithm. 2) We propose a novel approach (CC3D) for training neural mesh models that perform pose estimation via inverse rendering. In particular, we exploit the spatial relationships between features on the mesh surface and a contrastive learning scheme to guide the domain adaptation process. Combined, these two approaches enable our models to perform competitively with state-of-the-art models using only 10% of the respective real training images, while outperforming the SOTA model by 10.4% with a threshold of pi/18 using only 50% of the real training data. Our trained model further demonstrates robust generalization to out-of-distribution scenarios despite being trained with minimal real data.
T2TD: Text-3D Generation Model based on Prior Knowledge Guidance
In recent years, 3D models have been utilized in many applications, such as auto-driver, 3D reconstruction, VR, and AR. However, the scarcity of 3D model data does not meet its practical demands. Thus, generating high-quality 3D models efficiently from textual descriptions is a promising but challenging way to solve this problem. In this paper, inspired by the ability of human beings to complement visual information details from ambiguous descriptions based on their own experience, we propose a novel text-3D generation model (T2TD), which introduces the related shapes or textual information as the prior knowledge to improve the performance of the 3D generation model. In this process, we first introduce the text-3D knowledge graph to save the relationship between 3D models and textual semantic information, which can provide the related shapes to guide the target 3D model generation. Second, we integrate an effective causal inference model to select useful feature information from these related shapes, which removes the unrelated shape information and only maintains feature information that is strongly relevant to the textual description. Meanwhile, to effectively integrate multi-modal prior knowledge into textual information, we adopt a novel multi-layer transformer structure to progressively fuse related shape and textual information, which can effectively compensate for the lack of structural information in the text and enhance the final performance of the 3D generation model. The final experimental results demonstrate that our approach significantly improves 3D model generation quality and outperforms the SOTA methods on the text2shape datasets.
Cross3DVG: Baseline and Dataset for Cross-Dataset 3D Visual Grounding on Different RGB-D Scans
We present Cross3DVG, a novel task for cross-dataset visual grounding in 3D scenes, revealing the limitations of existing 3D visual grounding models using restricted 3D resources and thus easily overfit to a specific 3D dataset. To facilitate Cross3DVG, we have created a large-scale 3D visual grounding dataset containing more than 63k diverse descriptions of 3D objects within 1,380 indoor RGB-D scans from 3RScan with human annotations, paired with the existing 52k descriptions on ScanRefer. We perform Cross3DVG by training a model on the source 3D visual grounding dataset and then evaluating it on the target dataset constructed in different ways (e.g., different sensors, 3D reconstruction methods, and language annotators) without using target labels. We conduct comprehensive experiments using established visual grounding models, as well as a CLIP-based 2D-3D integration method, designed to bridge the gaps between 3D datasets. By performing Cross3DVG tasks, we found that (i) cross-dataset 3D visual grounding has significantly lower performance than learning and evaluation with a single dataset, suggesting much room for improvement in cross-dataset generalization of 3D visual grounding, (ii) better detectors and transformer-based localization modules for 3D grounding are beneficial for enhancing 3D grounding performance and (iii) fusing 2D-3D data using CLIP demonstrates further performance improvements. Our Cross3DVG task will provide a benchmark for developing robust 3D visual grounding models capable of handling diverse 3D scenes while leveraging deep language understanding.
A panoptic view of the Taurus molecular cloud I. The cloud dynamics revealed by gas emission and 3D dust
We present a study of the three-dimensional (3D) distribution of interstellar dust derived from stellar extinction observations toward the Taurus molecular cloud (MC) and its relation with the neutral atomic hydrogen (HI) emission at 21 cm wavelength and the carbon monoxide $^{12}$CO and $^{13}$CO emission in the $J=1\rightarrow0$ transition. We used the histogram of oriented gradients (HOG) method to match the morphology in a 3D reconstruction of the dust density (3D dust) and the distribution of the gas tracers' emission. The result of the HOG analysis is a map of the relationship between the distances and radial velocities. The HOG comparison between the 3D dust and the HI emission indicates a morphological match at the distance of Taurus but an anti-correlation between the dust density and the HI emission, which uncovers a significant amount of cold HI within the Taurus MC. The HOG between the 3D dust and $^{12}$CO reveals a pattern in radial velocities and distances that is consistent with converging motions of the gas in the Taurus MC, with the near side of the cloud moving at higher velocities and the far side moving at lower velocities. This convergence of flows is likely triggered by the large-scale gas compression caused by the interaction of the Local Bubble and the Per-Tau shell, with Taurus lying at the intersection of the two bubble surfaces.
A three-dimensional MR-STAT protocol for high-resolution multi-parametric quantitative MRI
Magnetic Resonance Spin Tomography in Time-Domain (MR-STAT) is a multiparametric quantitative MR framework, which allows for simultaneously acquiring quantitative tissue parameters such as T1, T2 and proton density from one single short scan. A typical 2D MR-STAT acquisition uses a gradient-spoiled, gradient-echo sequence with a slowly varying RF flip-angle train and Cartesian readouts, and the quantitative tissue maps are reconstructed by an iterative, model-based optimization algorithm. In this work, we design a 3D MR-STAT framework based on previous 2D work, in order to achieve better image SNR, higher though-plan resolution and better tissue characterization. Specifically, we design a 7-minute, high-resolution 3D MR-STAT sequence, and the corresponding two-step reconstruction algorithm for the large-scale dataset. To reduce the long acquisition time, Cartesian undersampling strategies such as SENSE are adopted in our transient-state quantitative framework. To reduce the computational burden, a data splitting scheme is designed for decoupling the 3D reconstruction problem into independent 2D reconstructions. The proposed 3D framework is validated by numerical simulations, phantom experiments and in-vivo experiments. High-quality knee quantitative maps with 0.8 x 0.8 x 1.5mm3 resolution and bilateral lower leg maps with 1.6mm isotropic resolution can be acquired using the proposed 7-minute acquisition sequence and the 3-minute-per-slice decoupled reconstruction algorithm. The proposed 3D MR-STAT framework could have wide clinical applications in the future.
SG-GAN: Fine Stereoscopic-Aware Generation for 3D Brain Point Cloud Up-sampling from a Single Image
In minimally-invasive brain surgeries with indirect and narrow operating environments, 3D brain reconstruction is crucial. However, as requirements of accuracy for some new minimally-invasive surgeries (such as brain-computer interface surgery) are higher and higher, the outputs of conventional 3D reconstruction, such as point cloud (PC), are facing the challenges that sample points are too sparse and the precision is insufficient. On the other hand, there is a scarcity of high-density point cloud datasets, which makes it challenging to train models for direct reconstruction of high-density brain point clouds. In this work, a novel model named stereoscopic-aware graph generative adversarial network (SG-GAN) with two stages is proposed to generate fine high-density PC conditioned on a single image. The Stage-I GAN sketches the primitive shape and basic structure of the organ based on the given image, yielding Stage-I point clouds. The Stage-II GAN takes the results from Stage-I and generates high-density point clouds with detailed features. The Stage-II GAN is capable of correcting defects and restoring the detailed features of the region of interest (ROI) through the up-sampling process. Furthermore, a parameter-free-attention-based free-transforming module is developed to learn the efficient features of input, while upholding a promising performance. Comparing with the existing methods, the SG-GAN model shows superior performance in terms of visual quality, objective measurements, and performance in classification, as demonstrated by comprehensive results measured by several evaluation metrics including PC-to-PC error and Chamfer distance.
Chupa: Carving 3D Clothed Humans from Skinned Shape Priors using 2D Diffusion Probabilistic Models
We propose a 3D generation pipeline that uses diffusion models to generate realistic human digital avatars. Due to the wide variety of human identities, poses, and stochastic details, the generation of 3D human meshes has been a challenging problem. To address this, we decompose the problem into 2D normal map generation and normal map-based 3D reconstruction. Specifically, we first simultaneously generate realistic normal maps for the front and backside of a clothed human, dubbed dual normal maps, using a pose-conditional diffusion model. For 3D reconstruction, we ``carve'' the prior SMPL-X mesh to a detailed 3D mesh according to the normal maps through mesh optimization. To further enhance the high-frequency details, we present a diffusion resampling scheme on both body and facial regions, thus encouraging the generation of realistic digital avatars. We also seamlessly incorporate a recent text-to-image diffusion model to support text-based human identity control. Our method, namely, Chupa, is capable of generating realistic 3D clothed humans with better perceptual quality and identity variety.
Text2NeRF: Text-Driven 3D Scene Generation with Neural Radiance Fields
Text-driven 3D scene generation is widely applicable to video gaming, film industry, and metaverse applications that have a large demand for 3D scenes. However, existing text-to-3D generation methods are limited to producing 3D objects with simple geometries and dreamlike styles that lack realism. In this work, we present Text2NeRF, which is able to generate a wide range of 3D scenes with complicated geometric structures and high-fidelity textures purely from a text prompt. To this end, we adopt NeRF as the 3D representation and leverage a pre-trained text-to-image diffusion model to constrain the 3D reconstruction of the NeRF to reflect the scene description. Specifically, we employ the diffusion model to infer the text-related image as the content prior and use a monocular depth estimation method to offer the geometric prior. Both content and geometric priors are utilized to update the NeRF model. To guarantee textured and geometric consistency between different views, we introduce a progressive scene inpainting and updating strategy for novel view synthesis of the scene. Our method requires no additional training data but only a natural language description of the scene as the input. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our Text2NeRF outperforms existing methods in producing photo-realistic, multi-view consistent, and diverse 3D scenes from a variety of natural language prompts.
RGB-D And Thermal Sensor Fusion: A Systematic Literature Review
In the last decade, the computer vision field has seen significant progress in multimodal data fusion and learning, where multiple sensors, including depth, infrared, and visual, are used to capture the environment across diverse spectral ranges. Despite these advancements, there has been no systematic and comprehensive evaluation of fusing RGB-D and thermal modalities to date. While autonomous driving using LiDAR, radar, RGB, and other sensors has garnered substantial research interest, along with the fusion of RGB and depth modalities, the integration of thermal cameras and, specifically, the fusion of RGB-D and thermal data, has received comparatively less attention. This might be partly due to the limited number of publicly available datasets for such applications. This paper provides a comprehensive review of both, state-of-the-art and traditional methods used in fusing RGB-D and thermal camera data for various applications, such as site inspection, human tracking, fault detection, and others. The reviewed literature has been categorised into technical areas, such as 3D reconstruction, segmentation, object detection, available datasets, and other related topics. Following a brief introduction and an overview of the methodology, the study delves into calibration and registration techniques, then examines thermal visualisation and 3D reconstruction, before discussing the application of classic feature-based techniques as well as modern deep learning approaches. The paper concludes with a discourse on current limitations and potential future research directions. It is hoped that this survey will serve as a valuable reference for researchers looking to familiarise themselves with the latest advancements and contribute to the RGB-DT research field.
Progressive Learning of 3D Reconstruction Network from 2D GAN Data
This paper presents a method to reconstruct high-quality textured 3D models from single images. Current methods rely on datasets with expensive annotations; multi-view images and their camera parameters. Our method relies on GAN generated multi-view image datasets which have a negligible annotation cost. However, they are not strictly multi-view consistent and sometimes GANs output distorted images. This results in degraded reconstruction qualities. In this work, to overcome these limitations of generated datasets, we have two main contributions which lead us to achieve state-of-the-art results on challenging objects: 1) A robust multi-stage learning scheme that gradually relies more on the models own predictions when calculating losses, 2) A novel adversarial learning pipeline with online pseudo-ground truth generations to achieve fine details. Our work provides a bridge from 2D supervisions of GAN models to 3D reconstruction models and removes the expensive annotation efforts. We show significant improvements over previous methods whether they were trained on GAN generated multi-view images or on real images with expensive annotations. Please visit our web-page for 3D visuals: https://research.nvidia.com/labs/adlr/progressive-3d-learning
ConsistentNeRF: Enhancing Neural Radiance Fields with 3D Consistency for Sparse View Synthesis
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) has demonstrated remarkable 3D reconstruction capabilities with dense view images. However, its performance significantly deteriorates under sparse view settings. We observe that learning the 3D consistency of pixels among different views is crucial for improving reconstruction quality in such cases. In this paper, we propose ConsistentNeRF, a method that leverages depth information to regularize both multi-view and single-view 3D consistency among pixels. Specifically, ConsistentNeRF employs depth-derived geometry information and a depth-invariant loss to concentrate on pixels that exhibit 3D correspondence and maintain consistent depth relationships. Extensive experiments on recent representative works reveal that our approach can considerably enhance model performance in sparse view conditions, achieving improvements of up to 94% in PSNR, 76% in SSIM, and 31% in LPIPS compared to the vanilla baselines across various benchmarks, including DTU, NeRF Synthetic, and LLFF.
Colonoscopy Coverage Revisited: Identifying Scanning Gaps in Real-Time
Colonoscopy is the most widely used medical technique for preventing Colorectal Cancer, by detecting and removing polyps before they become malignant. Recent studies show that around one quarter of the existing polyps are routinely missed. While some of these do appear in the endoscopist's field of view, others are missed due to a partial coverage of the colon. The task of detecting and marking unseen regions of the colon has been addressed in recent work, where the common approach is based on dense 3D reconstruction, which proves to be challenging due to lack of 3D ground truth and periods with poor visual content. In this paper we propose a novel and complementary method to detect deficient local coverage in real-time for video segments where a reliable 3D reconstruction is impossible. Our method aims to identify skips along the colon caused by a drifted position of the endoscope during poor visibility time intervals. The proposed solution consists of two phases. During the first, time segments with good visibility of the colon and gaps between them are identified. During the second phase, a trained model operates on each gap, answering the question: Do you observe the same scene before and after the gap? If the answer is negative, the endoscopist is alerted and can be directed to the appropriate area in real-time. The second phase model is trained using a contrastive loss based on auto-generated examples. Our method evaluation on a dataset of 250 procedures annotated by trained physicians provides sensitivity of 0.75 with specificity of 0.9.
3D reconstruction of the magnetization vector via XMCD-PEEM
In this work we present a detailed analysis on the performance of X-ray magnetic circular dichroism photo-emission electron microscopy (XMCD-PEEM) as a tool for vector reconstruction of the magnetization. For this, we choose 360$^{\circ}$ domain wall ring structures which form in a synthetic antiferromagnet as our model to conduct the quantitative analysis. We assess how the quality of the results is affected depending on the number of projections that are involved in the reconstruction process, as well as their angular distribution. For this we develop a self-consistent error metric, which indicates that the main factor of improvement comes from selecting the projections evenly spread out in space, over having a larger number of these spanning a smaller angular range. This work thus poses XMCD-PEEM as a powerful tool for vector imaging of complex 3D magnetic structures.
AutoRecon: Automated 3D Object Discovery and Reconstruction
A fully automated object reconstruction pipeline is crucial for digital content creation. While the area of 3D reconstruction has witnessed profound developments, the removal of background to obtain a clean object model still relies on different forms of manual labor, such as bounding box labeling, mask annotations, and mesh manipulations. In this paper, we propose a novel framework named AutoRecon for the automated discovery and reconstruction of an object from multi-view images. We demonstrate that foreground objects can be robustly located and segmented from SfM point clouds by leveraging self-supervised 2D vision transformer features. Then, we reconstruct decomposed neural scene representations with dense supervision provided by the decomposed point clouds, resulting in accurate object reconstruction and segmentation. Experiments on the DTU, BlendedMVS and CO3D-V2 datasets demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of AutoRecon.
Towards a Better Understanding of the Computer Vision Research Community in Africa
Computer vision is a broad field of study that encompasses different tasks (e.g., object detection, semantic segmentation, 3D reconstruction). Although computer vision is relevant to the African communities in various applications, yet computer vision research is under-explored in the continent and constructs only 0.06% of top-tier publications in the last 10 years. In this paper, our goal is to have a better understanding of the computer vision research conducted in Africa and provide pointers on whether there is equity in research or not. We do this through an empirical analysis of the African computer vision publications that are Scopus indexed. We first study the opportunities available for African institutions to publish in top-tier computer vision venues. We show that African publishing trends in top-tier venues over the years do not exhibit consistent growth. We also devise a novel way to retrieve African authors through their affiliation history to have a better understanding of their contributions in top-tier venues. Moreover, we study all computer vision publications beyond top-tier venues in different African regions to find that mainly Northern and Southern Africa are publishing in computer vision with more than 85% of African publications. Finally, we present the most recurring keywords in computer vision publications. In summary, our analysis reveals that African researchers are key contributors to African research, yet there exists multiple barriers to publish in top-tier venues and the current trend of topics published in the continent might not necessarily reflect the communities' needs. This work is part of a community based effort that is focused on improving computer vision research in Africa.
Scan2LoD3: Reconstructing semantic 3D building models at LoD3 using ray casting and Bayesian networks
Reconstructing semantic 3D building models at the level of detail (LoD) 3 is a long-standing challenge. Unlike mesh-based models, they require watertight geometry and object-wise semantics at the fa\c{c}ade level. The principal challenge of such demanding semantic 3D reconstruction is reliable fa\c{c}ade-level semantic segmentation of 3D input data. We present a novel method, called Scan2LoD3, that accurately reconstructs semantic LoD3 building models by improving fa\c{c}ade-level semantic 3D segmentation. To this end, we leverage laser physics and 3D building model priors to probabilistically identify model conflicts. These probabilistic physical conflicts propose locations of model openings: Their final semantics and shapes are inferred in a Bayesian network fusing multimodal probabilistic maps of conflicts, 3D point clouds, and 2D images. To fulfill demanding LoD3 requirements, we use the estimated shapes to cut openings in 3D building priors and fit semantic 3D objects from a library of fa\c{c}ade objects. Extensive experiments on the TUM city campus datasets demonstrate the superior performance of the proposed Scan2LoD3 over the state-of-the-art methods in fa\c{c}ade-level detection, semantic segmentation, and LoD3 building model reconstruction. We believe our method can foster the development of probability-driven semantic 3D reconstruction at LoD3 since not only the high-definition reconstruction but also reconstruction confidence becomes pivotal for various applications such as autonomous driving and urban simulations.
3DInvNet: A Deep Learning-Based 3D Ground-Penetrating Radar Data Inversion
The reconstruction of the 3D permittivity map from ground-penetrating radar (GPR) data is of great importance for mapping subsurface environments and inspecting underground structural integrity. Traditional iterative 3D reconstruction algorithms suffer from strong non-linearity, ill-posedness, and high computational cost. To tackle these issues, a 3D deep learning scheme, called 3DInvNet, is proposed to reconstruct 3D permittivity maps from GPR C-scans. The proposed scheme leverages a prior 3D convolutional neural network with a feature attention mechanism to suppress the noise in the C-scans due to subsurface heterogeneous soil environments. Then a 3D U-shaped encoder-decoder network with multi-scale feature aggregation modules is designed to establish the optimal inverse mapping from the denoised C-scans to 3D permittivity maps. Furthermore, a three-step separate learning strategy is employed to pre-train and fine-tune the networks. The proposed scheme is applied to numerical simulation as well as real measurement data. The quantitative and qualitative results show the network capability, generalizability, and robustness in denoising GPR C-scans and reconstructing 3D permittivity maps of subsurface objects.
Domain independent post-processing with graph U-nets: Applications to Electrical Impedance Tomographic Imaging
Reconstruction of tomographic images from boundary measurements requires flexibility with respect to target domains. For instance, when the system equations are modeled by partial differential equations the reconstruction is usually done on finite element (FE) meshes, allowing for flexible geometries. Thus, any processing of the obtained reconstructions should be ideally done on the FE mesh as well. For this purpose, we extend the hugely successful U-Net architecture that is limited to rectangular pixel or voxel domains to an equivalent that works flexibly on FE meshes. To achieve this, the FE mesh is converted into a graph and we formulate a graph U-Net with a new cluster pooling and unpooling on the graph that mimics the classic neighborhood based max-pooling. We demonstrate effectiveness and flexibility of the graph U-Net for improving reconstructions from electrical impedance tomographic (EIT) measurements, a nonlinear and highly ill-posed inverse problem. The performance is evaluated for simulated data and from three measurement devices with different measurement geometries and instrumentations. We successfully show that such networks can be trained with a simple two-dimensional simulated training set and generalize to very different domains, including measurements from a three-dimensional device and subsequent 3D reconstructions.
RelPose++: Recovering 6D Poses from Sparse-view Observations
We address the task of estimating 6D camera poses from sparse-view image sets (2-8 images). This task is a vital pre-processing stage for nearly all contemporary (neural) reconstruction algorithms but remains challenging given sparse views, especially for objects with visual symmetries and texture-less surfaces. We build on the recent RelPose framework which learns a network that infers distributions over relative rotations over image pairs. We extend this approach in two key ways; first, we use attentional transformer layers to process multiple images jointly, since additional views of an object may resolve ambiguous symmetries in any given image pair (such as the handle of a mug that becomes visible in a third view). Second, we augment this network to also report camera translations by defining an appropriate coordinate system that decouples the ambiguity in rotation estimation from translation prediction. Our final system results in large improvements in 6D pose prediction over prior art on both seen and unseen object categories and also enables pose estimation and 3D reconstruction for in-the-wild objects.
UrbanBIS: a Large-scale Benchmark for Fine-grained Urban Building Instance Segmentation
We present the UrbanBIS benchmark for large-scale 3D urban understanding, supporting practical urban-level semantic and building-level instance segmentation. UrbanBIS comprises six real urban scenes, with 2.5 billion points, covering a vast area of 10.78 square kilometers and 3,370 buildings, captured by 113,346 views of aerial photogrammetry. Particularly, UrbanBIS provides not only semantic-level annotations on a rich set of urban objects, including buildings, vehicles, vegetation, roads, and bridges, but also instance-level annotations on the buildings. Further, UrbanBIS is the first 3D dataset that introduces fine-grained building sub-categories, considering a wide variety of shapes for different building types. Besides, we propose B-Seg, a building instance segmentation method to establish UrbanBIS. B-Seg adopts an end-to-end framework with a simple yet effective strategy for handling large-scale point clouds. Compared with mainstream methods, B-Seg achieves better accuracy with faster inference speed on UrbanBIS. In addition to the carefully-annotated point clouds, UrbanBIS provides high-resolution aerial-acquisition photos and high-quality large-scale 3D reconstruction models, which shall facilitate a wide range of studies such as multi-view stereo, urban LOD generation, aerial path planning, autonomous navigation, road network extraction, and so on, thus serving as an important platform for many intelligent city applications.
Robot Goes Fishing: Rapid, High-Resolution Biological Hotspot Mapping in Coral Reefs with Vision-Guided Autonomous Underwater Vehicles
Coral reefs are fast-changing and complex ecosystems that are crucial to monitor and study. Biological hotspot detection can help coral reef managers prioritize limited resources for monitoring and intervention tasks. Here, we explore the use of autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) with cameras, coupled with visual detectors and photogrammetry, to map and identify these hotspots. This approach can provide high spatial resolution information in fast feedback cycles. To the best of our knowledge, we present one of the first attempts at using an AUV to gather visually-observed, fine-grain biological hotspot maps in concert with topography of a coral reefs. Our hotspot maps correlate with rugosity, an established proxy metric for coral reef biodiversity and abundance, as well as with our visual inspections of the 3D reconstruction. We also investigate issues of scaling this approach when applied to new reefs by using these visual detectors pre-trained on large public datasets.
Cortical analysis of heterogeneous clinical brain MRI scans for large-scale neuroimaging studies
Surface analysis of the cortex is ubiquitous in human neuroimaging with MRI, e.g., for cortical registration, parcellation, or thickness estimation. The convoluted cortical geometry requires isotropic scans (e.g., 1mm MPRAGEs) and good gray-white matter contrast for 3D reconstruction. This precludes the analysis of most brain MRI scans acquired for clinical purposes. Analyzing such scans would enable neuroimaging studies with sample sizes that cannot be achieved with current research datasets, particularly for underrepresented populations and rare diseases. Here we present the first method for cortical reconstruction, registration, parcellation, and thickness estimation for clinical brain MRI scans of any resolution and pulse sequence. The methods has a learning component and a classical optimization module. The former uses domain randomization to train a CNN that predicts an implicit representation of the white matter and pial surfaces (a signed distance function) at 1mm isotropic resolution, independently of the pulse sequence and resolution of the input. The latter uses geometry processing to place the surfaces while accurately satisfying topological and geometric constraints, thus enabling subsequent parcellation and thickness estimation with existing methods. We present results on 5mm axial FLAIR scans from ADNI and on a highly heterogeneous clinical dataset with 5,000 scans. Code and data are publicly available at https://surfer.nmr.mgh.harvard.edu/fswiki/recon-all-clinical
Second-order Anisotropic Gaussian Directional Derivative Filters for Blob Detection
Interest point detection methods have received increasing attention and are widely used in computer vision tasks such as image retrieval and 3D reconstruction. In this work, second-order anisotropic Gaussian directional derivative filters with multiple scales are used to smooth the input image and a novel blob detection method is proposed. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of our proposed method over state-of-the-art benchmarks in terms of detection performance and robustness to affine transformations.
Non-Linear Phase-Retrieval Algorithms for X-ray Propagation-Based Phase-Contrast Tomography
X-ray phase-contrast tomography (XPCT) is widely used for high-contrast 3D micron-scale imaging using nearly monochromatic X-rays at synchrotron beamlines. XPCT enables an order of magnitude improvement in image contrast of the reconstructed material interfaces with low X-ray absorption contrast. The dominant approaches to 3D reconstruction using XPCT relies on the use of phase-retrieval algorithms that make one or more limiting approximations for the experimental configuration and material properties. Since many experimental scenarios violate such approximations, the resulting reconstructions contain blur, artifacts, or other quantitative inaccuracies. Our solution to this problem is to formulate new iterative non-linear phase-retrieval (NLPR) algorithms that avoid such limiting approximations. Compared to the widely used state-of-the-art approaches, we show that our proposed algorithms result in sharp and quantitatively accurate reconstruction with reduced artifacts. Unlike existing NLPR algorithms, our approaches avoid the laborious manual tuning of regularization hyper-parameters while still achieving the stated goals. As an alternative to regularization, we propose explicit constraints on the material properties to constrain the solution space and solve the phase-retrieval problem. These constraints are easily user-configurable since they follow directly from the imaged object's dimensions and material properties.
NSLF-OL: Online Learning of Neural Surface Light Fields alongside Real-time Incremental 3D Reconstruction
Immersive novel view generation is an important technology in the field of graphics and has recently also received attention for operator-based human-robot interaction. However, the involved training is time-consuming, and thus the current test scope is majorly on object capturing. This limits the usage of related models in the robotics community for 3D reconstruction since robots (1) usually only capture a very small range of view directions to surfaces that cause arbitrary predictions on unseen, novel direction, (2) requires real-time algorithms, and (3) work with growing scenes, e.g., in robotic exploration. The paper proposes a novel Neural Surface Light Fields model that copes with the small range of view directions while producing a good result in unseen directions. Exploiting recent encoding techniques, the training of our model is highly efficient.   In addition, we design Multiple Asynchronous Neural Agents (MANA), a universal framework to learn each small region in parallel for large-scale growing scenes. Our model learns online the Neural Surface Light Fields (NSLF) aside from real-time 3D reconstruction with a sequential data stream as the shared input. In addition to online training, our model also provides real-time rendering after completing the data stream for visualization. We implement experiments using well-known RGBD indoor datasets, showing the high flexibility to embed our model into real-time 3D reconstruction and demonstrating high-fidelity view synthesis for these scenes. The code is available on github.
Learning Articulated Shape with Keypoint Pseudo-labels from Web Images
This paper shows that it is possible to learn models for monocular 3D reconstruction of articulated objects (e.g., horses, cows, sheep), using as few as 50-150 images labeled with 2D keypoints. Our proposed approach involves training category-specific keypoint estimators, generating 2D keypoint pseudo-labels on unlabeled web images, and using both the labeled and self-labeled sets to train 3D reconstruction models. It is based on two key insights: (1) 2D keypoint estimation networks trained on as few as 50-150 images of a given object category generalize well and generate reliable pseudo-labels; (2) a data selection mechanism can automatically create a "curated" subset of the unlabeled web images that can be used for training -- we evaluate four data selection methods. Coupling these two insights enables us to train models that effectively utilize web images, resulting in improved 3D reconstruction performance for several articulated object categories beyond the fully-supervised baseline. Our approach can quickly bootstrap a model and requires only a few images labeled with 2D keypoints. This requirement can be easily satisfied for any new object category. To showcase the practicality of our approach for predicting the 3D shape of arbitrary object categories, we annotate 2D keypoints on giraffe and bear images from COCO -- the annotation process takes less than 1 minute per image.
Combining HoloLens with Instant-NeRFs: Advanced Real-Time 3D Mobile Mapping
This work represents a large step into modern ways of fast 3D reconstruction based on RGB camera images. Utilizing a Microsoft HoloLens 2 as a multisensor platform that includes an RGB camera and an inertial measurement unit for SLAM-based camera-pose determination, we train a Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) as a neural scene representation in real-time with the acquired data from the HoloLens. The HoloLens is connected via Wifi to a high-performance PC that is responsible for the training and 3D reconstruction. After the data stream ends, the training is stopped and the 3D reconstruction is initiated, which extracts a point cloud of the scene. With our specialized inference algorithm, five million scene points can be extracted within 1 second. In addition, the point cloud also includes radiometry per point. Our method of 3D reconstruction outperforms grid point sampling with NeRFs by multiple orders of magnitude and can be regarded as a complete real-time 3D reconstruction method in a mobile mapping setup.
Shape-Net: Room Layout Estimation from Panoramic Images Robust to Occlusion using Knowledge Distillation with 3D Shapes as Additional Inputs
Estimating the layout of a room from a single-shot panoramic image is important in virtual/augmented reality and furniture layout simulation. This involves identifying three-dimensional (3D) geometry, such as the location of corners and boundaries, and performing 3D reconstruction. However, occlusion is a common issue that can negatively impact room layout estimation, and this has not been thoroughly studied to date. It is possible to obtain 3D shape information of rooms as drawings of buildings and coordinates of corners from image datasets, thus we propose providing both 2D panoramic and 3D information to a model to effectively deal with occlusion. However, simply feeding 3D information to a model is not sufficient to utilize the shape information for an occluded area. Therefore, we improve the model by introducing 3D Intersection over Union (IoU) loss to effectively use 3D information. In some cases, drawings are not available or the construction deviates from a drawing. Considering such practical cases, we propose a method for distilling knowledge from a model trained with both images and 3D information to a model that takes only images as input. The proposed model, which is called Shape-Net, achieves state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance on benchmark datasets. We also confirmed its effectiveness in dealing with occlusion through significantly improved accuracy on images with occlusion compared with existing models.
Instant-3D: Instant Neural Radiance Field Training Towards On-Device AR/VR 3D Reconstruction
Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) based 3D reconstruction is highly desirable for immersive Augmented and Virtual Reality (AR/VR) applications, but achieving instant (i.e., < 5 seconds) on-device NeRF training remains a challenge. In this work, we first identify the inefficiency bottleneck: the need to interpolate NeRF embeddings up to 200,000 times from a 3D embedding grid during each training iteration. To alleviate this, we propose Instant-3D, an algorithm-hardware co-design acceleration framework that achieves instant on-device NeRF training. Our algorithm decomposes the embedding grid representation in terms of color and density, enabling computational redundancy to be squeezed out by adopting different (1) grid sizes and (2) update frequencies for the color and density branches. Our hardware accelerator further reduces the dominant memory accesses for embedding grid interpolation by (1) mapping multiple nearby points' memory read requests into one during the feed-forward process, (2) merging embedding grid updates from the same sliding time window during back-propagation, and (3) fusing different computation cores to support the different grid sizes needed by the color and density branches of Instant-3D algorithm. Extensive experiments validate the effectiveness of Instant-3D, achieving a large training time reduction of 41x - 248x while maintaining the same reconstruction quality. Excitingly, Instant-3D has enabled instant 3D reconstruction for AR/VR, requiring a reconstruction time of only 1.6 seconds per scene and meeting the AR/VR power consumption constraint of 1.9 W.
Unsupervised Style-based Explicit 3D Face Reconstruction from Single Image
Inferring 3D object structures from a single image is an ill-posed task due to depth ambiguity and occlusion. Typical resolutions in the literature include leveraging 2D or 3D ground truth for supervised learning, as well as imposing hand-crafted symmetry priors or using an implicit representation to hallucinate novel viewpoints for unsupervised methods. In this work, we propose a general adversarial learning framework for solving Unsupervised 2D to Explicit 3D Style Transfer (UE3DST). Specifically, we merge two architectures: the unsupervised explicit 3D reconstruction network of Wu et al.\ and the Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) named StarGAN-v2. We experiment across three facial datasets (Basel Face Model, 3DFAW and CelebA-HQ) and show that our solution is able to outperform well established solutions such as DepthNet in 3D reconstruction and Pix2NeRF in conditional style transfer, while we also justify the individual contributions of our model components via ablation. In contrast to the aforementioned baselines, our scheme produces features for explicit 3D rendering, which can be manipulated and utilized in downstream tasks.
gSDF: Geometry-Driven Signed Distance Functions for 3D Hand-Object Reconstruction
Signed distance functions (SDFs) is an attractive framework that has recently shown promising results for 3D shape reconstruction from images. SDFs seamlessly generalize to different shape resolutions and topologies but lack explicit modelling of the underlying 3D geometry. In this work, we exploit the hand structure and use it as guidance for SDF-based shape reconstruction. In particular, we address reconstruction of hands and manipulated objects from monocular RGB images. To this end, we estimate poses of hands and objects and use them to guide 3D reconstruction. More specifically, we predict kinematic chains of pose transformations and align SDFs with highly-articulated hand poses. We improve the visual features of 3D points with geometry alignment and further leverage temporal information to enhance the robustness to occlusion and motion blurs. We conduct extensive experiments on the challenging ObMan and DexYCB benchmarks and demonstrate significant improvements of the proposed method over the state of the art.
Learning Visibility Field for Detailed 3D Human Reconstruction and Relighting
Detailed 3D reconstruction and photo-realistic relighting of digital humans are essential for various applications. To this end, we propose a novel sparse-view 3d human reconstruction framework that closely incorporates the occupancy field and albedo field with an additional visibility field--it not only resolves occlusion ambiguity in multiview feature aggregation, but can also be used to evaluate light attenuation for self-shadowed relighting. To enhance its training viability and efficiency, we discretize visibility onto a fixed set of sample directions and supply it with coupled geometric 3D depth feature and local 2D image feature. We further propose a novel rendering-inspired loss, namely TransferLoss, to implicitly enforce the alignment between visibility and occupancy field, enabling end-to-end joint training. Results and extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method, as it surpasses state-of-the-art in terms of reconstruction accuracy while achieving comparably accurate relighting to ray-traced ground truth.
NoiseTrans: Point Cloud Denoising with Transformers
Point clouds obtained from capture devices or 3D reconstruction techniques are often noisy and interfere with downstream tasks. The paper aims to recover the underlying surface of noisy point clouds. We design a novel model, NoiseTrans, which uses transformer encoder architecture for point cloud denoising. Specifically, we obtain structural similarity of point-based point clouds with the assistance of the transformer's core self-attention mechanism. By expressing the noisy point cloud as a set of unordered vectors, we convert point clouds into point embeddings and employ Transformer to generate clean point clouds. To make the Transformer preserve details when sensing the point cloud, we design the Local Point Attention to prevent the point cloud from being over-smooth. In addition, we also propose sparse encoding, which enables the Transformer to better perceive the structural relationships of the point cloud and improve the denoising performance. Experiments show that our model outperforms state-of-the-art methods in various datasets and noise environments.
UHRNet: A Deep Learning-Based Method for Accurate 3D Reconstruction from a Single Fringe-Pattern
The quick and accurate retrieval of an object height from a single fringe pattern in Fringe Projection Profilometry has been a topic of ongoing research. While a single shot fringe to depth CNN based method can restore height map directly from a single pattern, its accuracy is currently inferior to the traditional phase shifting technique. To improve this method's accuracy, we propose using a U shaped High resolution Network (UHRNet). The network uses UNet encoding and decoding structure as backbone, with Multi-Level convolution Block and High resolution Fusion Block applied to extract local features and global features. We also designed a compound loss function by combining Structural Similarity Index Measure Loss (SSIMLoss) function and chunked L2 loss function to improve 3D reconstruction details.We conducted several experiments to demonstrate the validity and robustness of our proposed method. A few experiments have been conducted to demonstrate the validity and robustness of the proposed method, The average RMSE of 3D reconstruction by our method is only 0.443(mm). which is 41.13% of the UNet method and 33.31% of Wang et al hNet method. Our experimental results show that our proposed method can increase the accuracy of 3D reconstruction from a single fringe pattern.
Statistical Investigation of the Widths of Supra-arcade Downflows Observed During a Solar Flare
Supra-arcade downflows (SADs) are dark voids descending towards the post-reconnection flare loops and exhibit obvious variation in properties like width. However, due to the lack of further statistical studies, the mechanism behind such variations hitherto remains elusive. Here we statistically investigated widths of 81 SADs observed in one flare by the Solar Dynamics Observatory (SDO). For each of SADs, six moments were selected with equal time intervals to measure their widths at different stages of their evolution. It is found that most SADs show a roughly monotonous width decrease during their descents, while some SADs with small initial widths can have complex evolutions. 3D reconstruction results based on SDO and Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory Ahead (STEREO-A) images and thermal properties analysis reveal that differences in magnetic and plasma environments may result in that SADs in the north are overall wider than those in the south. Additionally, correlation analysis between the width and other parameters of SADs was further conducted and revealed that: (1) SADs with different initial widths show no significant differences in their temperature and density evolution characteristics; (2) SADs with small initial widths usually appear in lower heights, where more frequent collisions between SADs could lead to their intermittent acceleration, width increment, and curved trajectories. These results indicate that SADs with different initial widths are produced the same way while different environments (magnetic field or plasma) could affect their subsequent width evolutions.
A Comparative Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) 3D Analysis of Camera Poses from HoloLens Trajectories and Structure from Motion
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) are trained using a set of camera poses and associated images as input to estimate density and color values for each position. The position-dependent density learning is of particular interest for photogrammetry, enabling 3D reconstruction by querying and filtering the NeRF coordinate system based on the object density. While traditional methods like Structure from Motion are commonly used for camera pose calculation in pre-processing for NeRFs, the HoloLens offers an interesting interface for extracting the required input data directly. We present a workflow for high-resolution 3D reconstructions almost directly from HoloLens data using NeRFs. Thereby, different investigations are considered: Internal camera poses from the HoloLens trajectory via a server application, and external camera poses from Structure from Motion, both with an enhanced variant applied through pose refinement. Results show that the internal camera poses lead to NeRF convergence with a PSNR of 25\,dB with a simple rotation around the x-axis and enable a 3D reconstruction. Pose refinement enables comparable quality compared to external camera poses, resulting in improved training process with a PSNR of 27\,dB and a better 3D reconstruction. Overall, NeRF reconstructions outperform the conventional photogrammetric dense reconstruction using Multi-View Stereo in terms of completeness and level of detail.
Reconstructing Signing Avatars From Video Using Linguistic Priors
Sign language (SL) is the primary method of communication for the 70 million Deaf people around the world. Video dictionaries of isolated signs are a core SL learning tool. Replacing these with 3D avatars can aid learning and enable AR/VR applications, improving access to technology and online media. However, little work has attempted to estimate expressive 3D avatars from SL video; occlusion, noise, and motion blur make this task difficult. We address this by introducing novel linguistic priors that are universally applicable to SL and provide constraints on 3D hand pose that help resolve ambiguities within isolated signs. Our method, SGNify, captures fine-grained hand pose, facial expression, and body movement fully automatically from in-the-wild monocular SL videos. We evaluate SGNify quantitatively by using a commercial motion-capture system to compute 3D avatars synchronized with monocular video. SGNify outperforms state-of-the-art 3D body-pose- and shape-estimation methods on SL videos. A perceptual study shows that SGNify's 3D reconstructions are significantly more comprehensible and natural than those of previous methods and are on par with the source videos. Code and data are available at $\href{http://sgnify.is.tue.mpg.de}{\text{sgnify.is.tue.mpg.de}}$.
A geometry-aware deep network for depth estimation in monocular endoscopy
Monocular depth estimation is critical for endoscopists to perform spatial perception and 3D navigation of surgical sites. However, most of the existing methods ignore the important geometric structural consistency, which inevitably leads to performance degradation and distortion of 3D reconstruction. To address this issue, we introduce a gradient loss to penalize edge fluctuations ambiguous around stepped edge structures and a normal loss to explicitly express the sensitivity to frequently small structures, and propose a geometric consistency loss to spreads the spatial information across the sample grids to constrain the global geometric anatomy structures. In addition, we develop a synthetic RGB-Depth dataset that captures the anatomical structures under reflections and illumination variations. The proposed method is extensively validated across different datasets and clinical images and achieves mean RMSE values of 0.066 (stomach), 0.029 (small intestine), and 0.139 (colon) on the EndoSLAM dataset. The generalizability of the proposed method achieves mean RMSE values of 12.604 (T1-L1), 9.930 (T2-L2), and 13.893 (T3-L3) on the ColonDepth dataset. The experimental results show that our method exceeds previous state-of-the-art competitors and generates more consistent depth maps and reasonable anatomical structures. The quality of intraoperative 3D structure perception from endoscopic videos of the proposed method meets the accuracy requirements of video-CT registration algorithms for endoscopic navigation. The dataset and the source code will be available at https://github.com/YYM-SIA/LINGMI-MR.
Tetra-NeRF: Representing Neural Radiance Fields Using Tetrahedra
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) are a very recent and very popular approach for the problems of novel view synthesis and 3D reconstruction. A popular scene representation used by NeRFs is to combine a uniform, voxel-based subdivision of the scene with an MLP. Based on the observation that a (sparse) point cloud of the scene is often available, this paper proposes to use an adaptive representation based on tetrahedra obtained by the Delaunay triangulation instead of the uniform subdivision or point-based representations. We show that such a representation enables efficient training and leads to state-of-the-art results. Our approach elegantly combines concepts from 3D geometry processing, triangle-based rendering, and modern neural radiance fields. Compared to voxel-based representations, ours provides more detail around parts of the scene likely to be close to the surface. Compared to point-based representations, our approach achieves better performance.
Anything-3D: Towards Single-view Anything Reconstruction in the Wild
3D reconstruction from a single-RGB image in unconstrained real-world scenarios presents numerous challenges due to the inherent diversity and complexity of objects and environments. In this paper, we introduce Anything-3D, a methodical framework that ingeniously combines a series of visual-language models and the Segment-Anything object segmentation model to elevate objects to 3D, yielding a reliable and versatile system for single-view conditioned 3D reconstruction task. Our approach employs a BLIP model to generate textural descriptions, utilizes the Segment-Anything model for the effective extraction of objects of interest, and leverages a text-to-image diffusion model to lift object into a neural radiance field. Demonstrating its ability to produce accurate and detailed 3D reconstructions for a wide array of objects, \emph{Anything-3D\footnotemark[2]} shows promise in addressing the limitations of existing methodologies. Through comprehensive experiments and evaluations on various datasets, we showcase the merits of our approach, underscoring its potential to contribute meaningfully to the field of 3D reconstruction. Demos and code will be available at \href{https://github.com/Anything-of-anything/Anything-3D}{https://github.com/Anything-of-anything/Anything-3D}.
Single-View View Synthesis with Self-Rectified Pseudo-Stereo
Synthesizing novel views from a single view image is a highly ill-posed problem. We discover an effective solution to reduce the learning ambiguity by expanding the single-view view synthesis problem to a multi-view setting. Specifically, we leverage the reliable and explicit stereo prior to generate a pseudo-stereo viewpoint, which serves as an auxiliary input to construct the 3D space. In this way, the challenging novel view synthesis process is decoupled into two simpler problems of stereo synthesis and 3D reconstruction. In order to synthesize a structurally correct and detail-preserved stereo image, we propose a self-rectified stereo synthesis to amend erroneous regions in an identify-rectify manner. Hard-to-train and incorrect warping samples are first discovered by two strategies, 1) pruning the network to reveal low-confident predictions; and 2) bidirectionally matching between stereo images to allow the discovery of improper mapping. These regions are then inpainted to form the final pseudo-stereo. With the aid of this extra input, a preferable 3D reconstruction can be easily obtained, and our method can work with arbitrary 3D representations. Extensive experiments show that our method outperforms state-of-the-art single-view view synthesis methods and stereo synthesis methods.
3 Dimensional Dense Reconstruction: A Review of Algorithms and Dataset
3D dense reconstruction refers to the process of obtaining the complete shape and texture features of 3D objects from 2D planar images. 3D reconstruction is an important and extensively studied problem, but it is far from being solved. This work systematically introduces classical methods of 3D dense reconstruction based on geometric and optical models, as well as methods based on deep learning. It also introduces datasets for deep learning and the performance and advantages and disadvantages demonstrated by deep learning methods on these datasets.
SurfelNeRF: Neural Surfel Radiance Fields for Online Photorealistic Reconstruction of Indoor Scenes
Online reconstructing and rendering of large-scale indoor scenes is a long-standing challenge. SLAM-based methods can reconstruct 3D scene geometry progressively in real time but can not render photorealistic results. While NeRF-based methods produce promising novel view synthesis results, their long offline optimization time and lack of geometric constraints pose challenges to efficiently handling online input. Inspired by the complementary advantages of classical 3D reconstruction and NeRF, we thus investigate marrying explicit geometric representation with NeRF rendering to achieve efficient online reconstruction and high-quality rendering. We introduce SurfelNeRF, a variant of neural radiance field which employs a flexible and scalable neural surfel representation to store geometric attributes and extracted appearance features from input images. We further extend the conventional surfel-based fusion scheme to progressively integrate incoming input frames into the reconstructed global neural scene representation. In addition, we propose a highly-efficient differentiable rasterization scheme for rendering neural surfel radiance fields, which helps SurfelNeRF achieve $10\times$ speedups in training and inference time, respectively. Experimental results show that our method achieves the state-of-the-art 23.82 PSNR and 29.58 PSNR on ScanNet in feedforward inference and per-scene optimization settings, respectively.
Learning How To Robustly Estimate Camera Pose in Endoscopic Videos
Purpose: Surgical scene understanding plays a critical role in the technology stack of tomorrow's intervention-assisting systems in endoscopic surgeries. For this, tracking the endoscope pose is a key component, but remains challenging due to illumination conditions, deforming tissues and the breathing motion of organs. Method: We propose a solution for stereo endoscopes that estimates depth and optical flow to minimize two geometric losses for camera pose estimation. Most importantly, we introduce two learned adaptive per-pixel weight mappings that balance contributions according to the input image content. To do so, we train a Deep Declarative Network to take advantage of the expressiveness of deep-learning and the robustness of a novel geometric-based optimization approach. We validate our approach on the publicly available SCARED dataset and introduce a new in-vivo dataset, StereoMIS, which includes a wider spectrum of typically observed surgical settings. Results: Our method outperforms state-of-the-art methods on average and more importantly, in difficult scenarios where tissue deformations and breathing motion are visible. We observed that our proposed weight mappings attenuate the contribution of pixels on ambiguous regions of the images, such as deforming tissues. Conclusion: We demonstrate the effectiveness of our solution to robustly estimate the camera pose in challenging endoscopic surgical scenes. Our contributions can be used to improve related tasks like simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) or 3D reconstruction, therefore advancing surgical scene understanding in minimally-invasive surgery.
Temporally Consistent Online Depth Estimation Using Point-Based Fusion
Depth estimation is an important step in many computer vision problems such as 3D reconstruction, novel view synthesis, and computational photography. Most existing work focuses on depth estimation from single frames. When applied to videos, the result lacks temporal consistency, showing flickering and swimming artifacts. In this paper we aim to estimate temporally consistent depth maps of video streams in an online setting. This is a difficult problem as future frames are not available and the method must choose between enforcing consistency and correcting errors from previous estimations. The presence of dynamic objects further complicates the problem. We propose to address these challenges by using a global point cloud that is dynamically updated each frame, along with a learned fusion approach in image space. Our approach encourages consistency while simultaneously allowing updates to handle errors and dynamic objects. Qualitative and quantitative results show that our method achieves state-of-the-art quality for consistent video depth estimation.
Single-Stage Diffusion NeRF: A Unified Approach to 3D Generation and Reconstruction
3D-aware image synthesis encompasses a variety of tasks, such as scene generation and novel view synthesis from images. Despite numerous task-specific methods, developing a comprehensive model remains challenging. In this paper, we present SSDNeRF, a unified approach that employs an expressive diffusion model to learn a generalizable prior of neural radiance fields (NeRF) from multi-view images of diverse objects. Previous studies have used two-stage approaches that rely on pretrained NeRFs as real data to train diffusion models. In contrast, we propose a new single-stage training paradigm with an end-to-end objective that jointly optimizes a NeRF auto-decoder and a latent diffusion model, enabling simultaneous 3D reconstruction and prior learning, even from sparsely available views. At test time, we can directly sample the diffusion prior for unconditional generation, or combine it with arbitrary observations of unseen objects for NeRF reconstruction. SSDNeRF demonstrates robust results comparable to or better than leading task-specific methods in unconditional generation and single/sparse-view 3D reconstruction.
SiLK -- Simple Learned Keypoints
Keypoint detection & descriptors are foundational tech-nologies for computer vision tasks like image matching, 3D reconstruction and visual odometry. Hand-engineered methods like Harris corners, SIFT, and HOG descriptors have been used for decades; more recently, there has been a trend to introduce learning in an attempt to improve keypoint detectors. On inspection however, the results are difficult to interpret; recent learning-based methods employ a vast diversity of experimental setups and design choices: empirical results are often reported using different backbones, protocols, datasets, types of supervisions or tasks. Since these differences are often coupled together, it raises a natural question on what makes a good learned keypoint detector. In this work, we revisit the design of existing keypoint detectors by deconstructing their methodologies and identifying the key components. We re-design each component from first-principle and propose Simple Learned Keypoints (SiLK) that is fully-differentiable, lightweight, and flexible. Despite its simplicity, SiLK advances new state-of-the-art on Detection Repeatability and Homography Estimation tasks on HPatches and 3D Point-Cloud Registration task on ScanNet, and achieves competitive performance to state-of-the-art on camera pose estimation in 2022 Image Matching Challenge and ScanNet.
Dynamic Voxel Grid Optimization for High-Fidelity RGB-D Supervised Surface Reconstruction
Direct optimization of interpolated features on multi-resolution voxel grids has emerged as a more efficient alternative to MLP-like modules. However, this approach is constrained by higher memory expenses and limited representation capabilities. In this paper, we introduce a novel dynamic grid optimization method for high-fidelity 3D surface reconstruction that incorporates both RGB and depth observations. Rather than treating each voxel equally, we optimize the process by dynamically modifying the grid and assigning more finer-scale voxels to regions with higher complexity, allowing us to capture more intricate details. Furthermore, we develop a scheme to quantify the dynamic subdivision of voxel grid during optimization without requiring any priors. The proposed approach is able to generate high-quality 3D reconstructions with fine details on both synthetic and real-world data, while maintaining computational efficiency, which is substantially faster than the baseline method NeuralRGBD.
EvAC3D: From Event-based Apparent Contours to 3D Models via Continuous Visual Hulls
3D reconstruction from multiple views is a successful computer vision field with multiple deployments in applications. State of the art is based on traditional RGB frames that enable optimization of photo-consistency cross views. In this paper, we study the problem of 3D reconstruction from event-cameras, motivated by the advantages of event-based cameras in terms of low power and latency as well as by the biological evidence that eyes in nature capture the same data and still perceive well 3D shape. The foundation of our hypothesis that 3D reconstruction is feasible using events lies in the information contained in the occluding contours and in the continuous scene acquisition with events. We propose Apparent Contour Events (ACE), a novel event-based representation that defines the geometry of the apparent contour of an object. We represent ACE by a spatially and temporally continuous implicit function defined in the event x-y-t space. Furthermore, we design a novel continuous Voxel Carving algorithm enabled by the high temporal resolution of the Apparent Contour Events. To evaluate the performance of the method, we collect MOEC-3D, a 3D event dataset of a set of common real-world objects. We demonstrate the ability of EvAC3D to reconstruct high-fidelity mesh surfaces from real event sequences while allowing the refinement of the 3D reconstruction for each individual event.
Neural Lens Modeling
Recent methods for 3D reconstruction and rendering increasingly benefit from end-to-end optimization of the entire image formation process. However, this approach is currently limited: effects of the optical hardware stack and in particular lenses are hard to model in a unified way. This limits the quality that can be achieved for camera calibration and the fidelity of the results of 3D reconstruction. In this paper, we propose NeuroLens, a neural lens model for distortion and vignetting that can be used for point projection and ray casting and can be optimized through both operations. This means that it can (optionally) be used to perform pre-capture calibration using classical calibration targets, and can later be used to perform calibration or refinement during 3D reconstruction, e.g., while optimizing a radiance field. To evaluate the performance of our proposed model, we create a comprehensive dataset assembled from the Lensfun database with a multitude of lenses. Using this and other real-world datasets, we show that the quality of our proposed lens model outperforms standard packages as well as recent approaches while being much easier to use and extend. The model generalizes across many lens types and is trivial to integrate into existing 3D reconstruction and rendering systems.
Evaluate Geometry of Radiance Field with Low-frequency Color Prior
Radiance field is an effective representation of 3D scenes, which has been widely adopted in novel-view synthesis and 3D reconstruction. It is still an open and challenging problem to evaluate the geometry, i.e., the density field, as the ground-truth is almost impossible to be obtained. One alternative indirect solution is to transform the density field into a point-cloud and compute its Chamfer Distance with the scanned ground-truth. However, many widely-used datasets have no point-cloud ground-truth since the scanning process along with the equipment is expensive and complicated. To this end, we propose a novel metric, named Inverse Mean Residual Color (IMRC), which can evaluate the geometry only with the observation images. Our key insight is that the better the geometry is, the lower-frequency the computed color field is. From this insight, given reconstructed density field and the observation images, we design a closed-form method to approximate the color field with low-frequency spherical harmonics and compute the inverse mean residual color. Then the higher the IMRC, the better the geometry. Qualitative and quantitative experimental results verify the effectiveness of our proposed IMRC metric. We also benchmark several state-of-the-art methods using IMRC to promote future related research.
Estimating 3D Dental Structures using Simulated Panoramic Radiographs and Neural Ray Tracing
Panoramic radiography (Panoramic X-ray, PX) is a widely used imaging modality for dental examination. Since PX only provides 2D flattened views of the oral structure, its applicability is limited as compared to 3D Cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT). In this paper, we propose a framework to estimate CBCT-like 3D structures from real-world PX. Our framework tackles full 3D reconstruction for varying subjects (patients) where each reconstruction is based only on a single panoramic image. We create an intermediate representation called simulated PX (SimPX) from CBCT data which is based both on the Beer-Lambert law of X-ray rendering and rotational principles of PX imaging. SimPX aims at not only truthfully simulating PX, but also facilitates the reverting process back to 3D data. We propose a novel neural model based on ray tracing which exploits both global and local input features to convert SimPX to 3D output. At inference, a real PX image is translated to a SimPX-style image with semantic regularization, and the translated image is processed by generation/refinement modules to produce high-quality outputs. Experiments show that our method outperforms prior state-of-the-art in reconstruction tasks both quantitatively and qualitatively. Our method does not require any prior information such as the shape of dental arches, nor the matched PX-CBCT dataset for training, which is difficult to obtain in clinical practice.
Analysis of Sampling Strategies for Implicit 3D Reconstruction
In the training process of the implicit 3D reconstruction network, the choice of spatial query points' sampling strategy affects the final performance of the model. Different works have differences in the selection of sampling strategies, not only in the spatial distribution of query points but also in the order of magnitude difference in the density of query points. For how to select the sampling strategy of query points, current works are more akin to an enumerating operation to find the optimal solution, which seriously affects work efficiency. In this work, we explored the relationship between sampling strategy and network final performance through classification analysis and experimental comparison from three aspects: the relationship between network type and sampling strategy, the relationship between implicit function and sampling strategy, and the impact of sampling density on model performance. In addition, we also proposed two methods, linear sampling and distance mask, to improve the sampling strategy of query points, making it more general and robust.
3D GANs and Latent Space: A comprehensive survey
Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) have emerged as a significant player in generative modeling by mapping lower-dimensional random noise to higher-dimensional spaces. These networks have been used to generate high-resolution images and 3D objects. The efficient modeling of 3D objects and human faces is crucial in the development process of 3D graphical environments such as games or simulations. 3D GANs are a new type of generative model used for 3D reconstruction, point cloud reconstruction, and 3D semantic scene completion. The choice of distribution for noise is critical as it represents the latent space. Understanding a GAN's latent space is essential for fine-tuning the generated samples, as demonstrated by the morphing of semantically meaningful parts of images. In this work, we explore the latent space and 3D GANs, examine several GAN variants and training methods to gain insights into improving 3D GAN training, and suggest potential future directions for further research.
Photometric Correction for Infrared Sensors
Infrared thermography has been widely used in several domains to capture and measure temperature distributions across surfaces and objects. This methodology can be further expanded to 3D applications if the spatial distribution of the temperature distribution is available. Structure from Motion (SfM) is a photometric range imaging technique that makes it possible to obtain 3D renderings from a cloud of 2D images. To explore the possibility of 3D reconstruction via SfM from infrared images, this article proposes a photometric correction model for infrared sensors based on temperature constancy. Photometric correction is accomplished by estimating the scene irradiance as the values from the solution to a differential equation for microbolometer pixel excitation with unknown coefficients and initial conditions. The model was integrated into an SfM framework and experimental evaluations demonstrate the contribution of the photometric correction for improving the estimates of both the camera motion and the scene structure. Further, experiments show that the reconstruction quality from the corrected infrared imagery achieves performance on par with state-of-the-art reconstruction using RGB sensors.
ALIKED: A Lighter Keypoint and Descriptor Extraction Network via Deformable Transformation
Image keypoints and descriptors play a crucial role in many visual measurement tasks. In recent years, deep neural networks have been widely used to improve the performance of keypoint and descriptor extraction. However, the conventional convolution operations do not provide the geometric invariance required for the descriptor. To address this issue, we propose the Sparse Deformable Descriptor Head (SDDH), which learns the deformable positions of supporting features for each keypoint and constructs deformable descriptors. Furthermore, SDDH extracts descriptors at sparse keypoints instead of a dense descriptor map, which enables efficient extraction of descriptors with strong expressiveness. In addition, we relax the neural reprojection error (NRE) loss from dense to sparse to train the extracted sparse descriptors. Experimental results show that the proposed network is both efficient and powerful in various visual measurement tasks, including image matching, 3D reconstruction, and visual relocalization.
Neural Fields meet Explicit Geometric Representation for Inverse Rendering of Urban Scenes
Reconstruction and intrinsic decomposition of scenes from captured imagery would enable many applications such as relighting and virtual object insertion. Recent NeRF based methods achieve impressive fidelity of 3D reconstruction, but bake the lighting and shadows into the radiance field, while mesh-based methods that facilitate intrinsic decomposition through differentiable rendering have not yet scaled to the complexity and scale of outdoor scenes. We present a novel inverse rendering framework for large urban scenes capable of jointly reconstructing the scene geometry, spatially-varying materials, and HDR lighting from a set of posed RGB images with optional depth. Specifically, we use a neural field to account for the primary rays, and use an explicit mesh (reconstructed from the underlying neural field) for modeling secondary rays that produce higher-order lighting effects such as cast shadows. By faithfully disentangling complex geometry and materials from lighting effects, our method enables photorealistic relighting with specular and shadow effects on several outdoor datasets. Moreover, it supports physics-based scene manipulations such as virtual object insertion with ray-traced shadow casting.
Deep learning-based image exposure enhancement as a pre-processing for an accurate 3D colon surface reconstruction
This contribution shows how an appropriate image pre-processing can improve a deep-learning based 3D reconstruction of colon parts. The assumption is that, rather than global image illumination corrections, local under- and over-exposures should be corrected in colonoscopy. An overview of the pipeline including the image exposure correction and a RNN-SLAM is first given. Then, this paper quantifies the reconstruction accuracy of the endoscope trajectory in the colon with and without appropriate illumination correction
DeLiRa: Self-Supervised Depth, Light, and Radiance Fields
Differentiable volumetric rendering is a powerful paradigm for 3D reconstruction and novel view synthesis. However, standard volume rendering approaches struggle with degenerate geometries in the case of limited viewpoint diversity, a common scenario in robotics applications. In this work, we propose to use the multi-view photometric objective from the self-supervised depth estimation literature as a geometric regularizer for volumetric rendering, significantly improving novel view synthesis without requiring additional information. Building upon this insight, we explore the explicit modeling of scene geometry using a generalist Transformer, jointly learning a radiance field as well as depth and light fields with a set of shared latent codes. We demonstrate that sharing geometric information across tasks is mutually beneficial, leading to improvements over single-task learning without an increase in network complexity. Our DeLiRa architecture achieves state-of-the-art results on the ScanNet benchmark, enabling high quality volumetric rendering as well as real-time novel view and depth synthesis in the limited viewpoint diversity setting.
Image Stabilization for Hololens Camera in Remote Collaboration
With the advent of new technologies, Augmented Reality (AR) has become an effective tool in remote collaboration. Narrow field-of-view (FoV) and motion blur can offer an unpleasant experience with limited cognition for remote viewers of AR headsets. In this article, we propose a two-stage pipeline to tackle this issue and ensure a stable viewing experience with a larger FoV. The solution involves an offline 3D reconstruction of the indoor environment, followed by enhanced rendering using only the live poses of AR device. We experiment with and evaluate the two different 3D reconstruction methods, RGB-D geometric approach and Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF), based on their data requirements, reconstruction quality, rendering, and training times. The generated sequences from these methods had smoother transitions and provided a better perspective of the environment. The geometry-based enhanced FoV method had better renderings as it lacked blurry outputs making it better than the other attempted approaches. Structural Similarity Index (SSIM) and Peak Signal to Noise Ratio (PSNR) metrics were used to quantitatively show that the rendering quality using the geometry-based enhanced FoV method is better. Link to the code repository - https://github.com/MixedRealityETHZ/ImageStabilization.
Real-Time Dense 3D Mapping of Underwater Environments
This paper addresses real-time dense 3D reconstruction for a resource-constrained Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (AUV). Underwater vision-guided operations are among the most challenging as they combine 3D motion in the presence of external forces, limited visibility, and absence of global positioning. Obstacle avoidance and effective path planning require online dense reconstructions of the environment. Autonomous operation is central to environmental monitoring, marine archaeology, resource utilization, and underwater cave exploration. To address this problem, we propose to use SVIn2, a robust VIO method, together with a real-time 3D reconstruction pipeline. We provide extensive evaluation on four challenging underwater datasets. Our pipeline produces comparable reconstruction with that of COLMAP, the state-of-the-art offline 3D reconstruction method, at high frame rates on a single CPU.
USTC FLICAR: A Multisensor Fusion Dataset of LiDAR-Inertial-Camera for Heavy-duty Autonomous Aerial Work Robots
In this paper, we present the USTC FLICAR Dataset, which is dedicated to the development of simultaneous localization and mapping and precise 3D reconstruction of the workspace for heavy-duty autonomous aerial work robots. In recent years, numerous public datasets have played significant roles in the advancement of autonomous cars and unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). However, these two platforms differ from aerial work robots: UAVs are limited in their payload capacity, while cars are restricted to two-dimensional movements. To fill this gap, we create the Giraffe mapping robot based on a bucket truck, which is equipped with a variety of well-calibrated and synchronized sensors: four 3D LiDARs, two stereo cameras, two monocular cameras, Inertial Measurement Units (IMUs), and a GNSS/INS system. A laser tracker is used to record the millimeter-level ground truth positions. We also make its ground twin, the Okapi mapping robot, to gather data for comparison. The proposed dataset extends the typical autonomous driving sensing suite to aerial scenes. Therefore, the dataset is named FLICAR to denote flying cars. We believe this dataset can also represent the flying car scenarios, specifically the takeoff and landing of VTOL (Vertical Takeoff and Landing) flying cars. The dataset is available for download at: https://ustc-flicar.github.io.
End-to-End Latency Optimization of Multi-view 3D Reconstruction for Disaster Response
In order to plan rapid response during disasters, first responder agencies often adopt `bring your own device' (BYOD) model with inexpensive mobile edge devices (e.g., drones, robots, tablets) for complex video analytics applications, e.g., 3D reconstruction of a disaster scene. Unlike simpler video applications, widely used Multi-view Stereo (MVS) based 3D reconstruction applications (e.g., openMVG/openMVS) are exceedingly time consuming, especially when run on such computationally constrained mobile edge devices. Additionally, reducing the reconstruction latency of such inherently sequential algorithms is challenging as unintelligent, application-agnostic strategies can drastically degrade the reconstruction (i.e., application outcome) quality making them useless. In this paper, we aim to design a latency optimized MVS algorithm pipeline, with the objective to best balance the end-to-end latency and reconstruction quality by running the pipeline on a collaborative mobile edge environment. The overall optimization approach is two-pronged where: (a) application optimizations introduce data-level parallelism by splitting the pipeline into high frequency and low frequency reconstruction components and (b) system optimizations incorporate task-level parallelism to the pipelines by running them opportunistically on available resources with online quality control in order to balance both latency and quality. Our evaluation on a hardware testbed using publicly available datasets shows upto ~54% reduction in latency with negligible loss (~4-7%) in reconstruction quality.
FineRecon: Depth-aware Feed-forward Network for Detailed 3D Reconstruction
Recent works on 3D reconstruction from posed images have demonstrated that direct inference of scene-level 3D geometry without iterative optimization is feasible using a deep neural network, showing remarkable promise and high efficiency. However, the reconstructed geometries, typically represented as a 3D truncated signed distance function (TSDF), are often coarse without fine geometric details. To address this problem, we propose three effective solutions for improving the fidelity of inference-based 3D reconstructions. We first present a resolution-agnostic TSDF supervision strategy to provide the network with a more accurate learning signal during training, avoiding the pitfalls of TSDF interpolation seen in previous work. We then introduce a depth guidance strategy using multi-view depth estimates to enhance the scene representation and recover more accurate surfaces. Finally, we develop a novel architecture for the final layers of the network, conditioning the output TSDF prediction on high-resolution image features in addition to coarse voxel features, enabling sharper reconstruction of fine details. Our method produces smooth and highly accurate reconstructions, showing significant improvements across multiple depth and 3D reconstruction metrics.
One-Shot View Planning for Fast and Complete Unknown Object Reconstruction
Current view planning (VP) systems usually adopt an iterative pipeline with next-best-view (NBV) methods that can autonomously perform 3D reconstruction of unknown objects. However, they are slowed down by local path planning, which is improved by our previously proposed set-covering-based network SCVP using one-shot view planning and global path planning. In this work, we propose a combined pipeline that selects a few NBVs before activating the network to improve model completeness. However, this pipeline will result in more views than expected because the SCVP has not been trained from multiview scenarios. To reduce the overall number of views and paths required, we propose a multiview-activated architecture MA-SCVP and an efficient dataset sampling method for view planning based on a long-tail distribution. Ablation studies confirm the optimal network architecture, the sampling method and the number of samples, the NBV method and the number of NBVs in our combined pipeline. Comparative experiments support the claim that our system achieves faster and more complete reconstruction than state-of-the-art systems. For the reference of the community, we make the source codes public.
Real-Time Tilt Undersampling Optimization during Electron Tomography of Beam Sensitive Samples using Golden Ratio Scanning and RECAST3D
Electron tomography is a widely used technique for 3D structural analysis of nanomaterials, but it can cause damage to samples due to high electron doses and long exposure times. To minimize such damage, researchers often reduce beam exposure by acquiring fewer projections through tilt undersampling. However, this approach can also introduce reconstruction artifacts due to insufficient sampling. Therefore, it is important to determine the optimal number of projections that minimizes both beam exposure and undersampling artifacts for accurate reconstructions of beam-sensitive samples. Current methods for determining this optimal number of projections involve acquiring and post-processing multiple reconstructions with different numbers of projections, which can be time-consuming and requires multiple samples due to sample damage. To improve this process, we propose a protocol that combines golden ratio scanning and quasi-3D reconstruction to estimate the optimal number of projections in real-time during a single acquisition. This protocol was validated using simulated and realistic nanoparticles, and was successfully applied to reconstruct two beam-sensitive metal-organic framework complexes.
LivePose: Online 3D Reconstruction from Monocular Video with Dynamic Camera Poses
Dense 3D reconstruction from RGB images traditionally assumes static camera pose estimates. This assumption has endured, even as recent works have increasingly focused on real-time methods for mobile devices. However, the assumption of one pose per image does not hold for online execution: poses from real-time SLAM are dynamic and may be updated following events such as bundle adjustment and loop closure. This has been addressed in the RGB-D setting, by de-integrating past views and re-integrating them with updated poses, but it remains largely untreated in the RGB-only setting. We formalize this problem to define the new task of online reconstruction from dynamically-posed images. To support further research, we introduce a dataset called LivePose containing the dynamic poses from a SLAM system running on ScanNet. We select three recent reconstruction systems and apply a framework based on de-integration to adapt each one to the dynamic-pose setting. In addition, we propose a novel, non-linear de-integration module that learns to remove stale scene content. We show that responding to pose updates is critical for high-quality reconstruction, and that our de-integration framework is an effective solution.
Three-dimensional coherent diffraction snapshot imaging using extreme ultraviolet radiation from a free electron laser
The possibility to obtain a three-dimensional representation of a single object with sub-$\mu$m resolution is crucial in many fields, from material science to clinical diagnostics. This is typically achieved through tomography, which combines multiple two-dimensional images of the same object captured at different orientations. However, this serial imaging method prevents single-shot acquisition in imaging experiments at free electron lasers. In the present experiment, we report on a new approach to 3D imaging using extreme-ultraviolet radiation. In this method, two EUV pulses hit simultaneously an isolated 3D object from different sides, generating independent coherent diffraction patterns, resulting in two distinct bidimensional views obtained via phase retrieval. These views are then used to obtain a 3D reconstruction using a ray tracing algorithm. This EUV stereoscopic imaging approach, similar to the natural process of binocular vision, provides sub-$\mu$m spatial resolution and single shot capability. Moreover, ultrafast time resolution and spectroscopy can be readily implemented, a further extension to X-ray wavelengths can be envisioned as well.
Enhanced Stable View Synthesis
We introduce an approach to enhance the novel view synthesis from images taken from a freely moving camera. The introduced approach focuses on outdoor scenes where recovering accurate geometric scaffold and camera pose is challenging, leading to inferior results using the state-of-the-art stable view synthesis (SVS) method. SVS and related methods fail for outdoor scenes primarily due to (i) over-relying on the multiview stereo (MVS) for geometric scaffold recovery and (ii) assuming COLMAP computed camera poses as the best possible estimates, despite it being well-studied that MVS 3D reconstruction accuracy is limited to scene disparity and camera-pose accuracy is sensitive to key-point correspondence selection. This work proposes a principled way to enhance novel view synthesis solutions drawing inspiration from the basics of multiple view geometry. By leveraging the complementary behavior of MVS and monocular depth, we arrive at a better scene depth per view for nearby and far points, respectively. Moreover, our approach jointly refines camera poses with image-based rendering via multiple rotation averaging graph optimization. The recovered scene depth and the camera-pose help better view-dependent on-surface feature aggregation of the entire scene. Extensive evaluation of our approach on the popular benchmark dataset, such as Tanks and Temples, shows substantial improvement in view synthesis results compared to the prior art. For instance, our method shows 1.5 dB of PSNR improvement on the Tank and Temples. Similar statistics are observed when tested on other benchmark datasets such as FVS, Mip-NeRF 360, and DTU.
AirLine: Efficient Learnable Line Detection with Local Edge Voting
Line detection is widely used in many robotic tasks such as scene recognition, 3D reconstruction, and simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). Compared to points, lines can provide both low-level and high-level geometrical information for downstream tasks. In this paper, we propose a novel edge-based line detection algorithm, AirLine, which can be applied to various tasks. In contrast to existing learnable endpoint-based methods which are sensitive to the geometrical condition of environments, AirLine can extract line segments directly from edges, resulting in a better generalization ability for unseen environments. Also to balance efficiency and accuracy, we introduce a region-grow algorithm and local edge voting scheme for line parameterization. To the best of our knowledge, AirLine is one of the first learnable edge-based line detection methods. Our extensive experiments show that it retains state-of-the-art-level precision yet with a 3-80 times runtime acceleration compared to other learning-based methods, which is critical for low-power robots.
Multi-View Azimuth Stereo via Tangent Space Consistency
We present a method for 3D reconstruction only using calibrated multi-view surface azimuth maps. Our method, multi-view azimuth stereo, is effective for textureless or specular surfaces, which are difficult for conventional multi-view stereo methods. We introduce the concept of tangent space consistency: Multi-view azimuth observations of a surface point should be lifted to the same tangent space. Leveraging this consistency, we recover the shape by optimizing a neural implicit surface representation. Our method harnesses the robust azimuth estimation capabilities of photometric stereo methods or polarization imaging while bypassing potentially complex zenith angle estimation. Experiments using azimuth maps from various sources validate the accurate shape recovery with our method, even without zenith angles.
NeUDF: Learning Unsigned Distance Fields from Multi-view Images for Reconstructing Non-watertight Models
Volume rendering-based 3D reconstruction from multi-view images has gained popularity in recent years, largely due to the success of neural radiance fields (NeRF). A number of methods have been developed that build upon NeRF and use neural volume rendering to learn signed distance fields (SDFs) for reconstructing 3D models. However, SDF-based methods cannot represent non-watertight models and, therefore, cannot capture open boundaries. This paper proposes a new algorithm for learning an accurate unsigned distance field (UDF) from multi-view images, which is specifically designed for reconstructing non-watertight, textureless models. The proposed method, called NeUDF, addresses the limitations of existing UDF-based methods by introducing a simple and approximately unbiased and occlusion-aware density function. In addition, a smooth and differentiable UDF representation is presented to make the learning process easier and more efficient. Experiments on both texture-rich and textureless models demonstrate the robustness and effectiveness of the proposed approach, making it a promising solution for reconstructing challenging 3D models from multi-view images.
TMO: Textured Mesh Acquisition of Objects with a Mobile Device by using Differentiable Rendering
We present a new pipeline for acquiring a textured mesh in the wild with a single smartphone which offers access to images, depth maps, and valid poses. Our method first introduces an RGBD-aided structure from motion, which can yield filtered depth maps and refines camera poses guided by corresponding depth. Then, we adopt the neural implicit surface reconstruction method, which allows for high-quality mesh and develops a new training process for applying a regularization provided by classical multi-view stereo methods. Moreover, we apply a differentiable rendering to fine-tune incomplete texture maps and generate textures which are perceptually closer to the original scene. Our pipeline can be applied to any common objects in the real world without the need for either in-the-lab environments or accurate mask images. We demonstrate results of captured objects with complex shapes and validate our method numerically against existing 3D reconstruction and texture mapping methods.
Clean-NeRF: Reformulating NeRF to account for View-Dependent Observations
While Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) had achieved unprecedented novel view synthesis results, they have been struggling in dealing with large-scale cluttered scenes with sparse input views and highly view-dependent appearances. Specifically, existing NeRF-based models tend to produce blurry rendering with the volumetric reconstruction often inaccurate, where a lot of reconstruction errors are observed in the form of foggy "floaters" hovering within the entire volume of an opaque 3D scene. Such inaccuracies impede NeRF's potential for accurate 3D NeRF registration, object detection, segmentation, etc., which possibly accounts for only limited significant research effort so far to directly address these important 3D fundamental computer vision problems to date. This paper analyzes the NeRF's struggles in such settings and proposes Clean-NeRF for accurate 3D reconstruction and novel view rendering in complex scenes. Our key insights consist of enforcing effective appearance and geometry constraints, which are absent in the conventional NeRF reconstruction, by 1) automatically detecting and modeling view-dependent appearances in the training views to prevent them from interfering with density estimation, which is complete with 2) a geometric correction procedure performed on each traced ray during inference. Clean-NeRF can be implemented as a plug-in that can immediately benefit existing NeRF-based methods without additional input. Codes will be released.
PAniC-3D: Stylized Single-view 3D Reconstruction from Portraits of Anime Characters
We propose PAniC-3D, a system to reconstruct stylized 3D character heads directly from illustrated (p)ortraits of (ani)me (c)haracters. Our anime-style domain poses unique challenges to single-view reconstruction; compared to natural images of human heads, character portrait illustrations have hair and accessories with more complex and diverse geometry, and are shaded with non-photorealistic contour lines. In addition, there is a lack of both 3D model and portrait illustration data suitable to train and evaluate this ambiguous stylized reconstruction task. Facing these challenges, our proposed PAniC-3D architecture crosses the illustration-to-3D domain gap with a line-filling model, and represents sophisticated geometries with a volumetric radiance field. We train our system with two large new datasets (11.2k Vroid 3D models, 1k Vtuber portrait illustrations), and evaluate on a novel AnimeRecon benchmark of illustration-to-3D pairs. PAniC-3D significantly outperforms baseline methods, and provides data to establish the task of stylized reconstruction from portrait illustrations.
LPFF: A Portrait Dataset for Face Generators Across Large Poses
The creation of 2D realistic facial images and 3D face shapes using generative networks has been a hot topic in recent years. Existing face generators exhibit exceptional performance on faces in small to medium poses (with respect to frontal faces) but struggle to produce realistic results for large poses. The distorted rendering results on large poses in 3D-aware generators further show that the generated 3D face shapes are far from the distribution of 3D faces in reality. We find that the above issues are caused by the training dataset's pose imbalance.   In this paper, we present LPFF, a large-pose Flickr face dataset comprised of 19,590 high-quality real large-pose portrait images. We utilize our dataset to train a 2D face generator that can process large-pose face images, as well as a 3D-aware generator that can generate realistic human face geometry. To better validate our pose-conditional 3D-aware generators, we develop a new FID measure to evaluate the 3D-level performance. Through this novel FID measure and other experiments, we show that LPFF can help 2D face generators extend their latent space and better manipulate the large-pose data, and help 3D-aware face generators achieve better view consistency and more realistic 3D reconstruction results.
BundleSDF: Neural 6-DoF Tracking and 3D Reconstruction of Unknown Objects
We present a near real-time method for 6-DoF tracking of an unknown object from a monocular RGBD video sequence, while simultaneously performing neural 3D reconstruction of the object. Our method works for arbitrary rigid objects, even when visual texture is largely absent. The object is assumed to be segmented in the first frame only. No additional information is required, and no assumption is made about the interaction agent. Key to our method is a Neural Object Field that is learned concurrently with a pose graph optimization process in order to robustly accumulate information into a consistent 3D representation capturing both geometry and appearance. A dynamic pool of posed memory frames is automatically maintained to facilitate communication between these threads. Our approach handles challenging sequences with large pose changes, partial and full occlusion, untextured surfaces, and specular highlights. We show results on HO3D, YCBInEOAT, and BEHAVE datasets, demonstrating that our method significantly outperforms existing approaches. Project page: https://bundlesdf.github.io
Deformable Model Driven Neural Rendering for High-fidelity 3D Reconstruction of Human Heads Under Low-View Settings
We propose a robust method for learning neural implicit functions that can reconstruct 3D human heads with high-fidelity geometry from low-view inputs. We represent 3D human heads as the zero level-set of a composed signed distance field that consists of a smooth template, a non-rigid deformation, and a high-frequency displacement field. The template represents identity-independent and expression-neutral features, which is trained on multiple individuals, along with the deformation network. The displacement field encodes identity-dependent geometric details, trained for each specific individual. We train our network in two stages using a coarse-to-fine strategy without 3D supervision. Our experiments demonstrate that the geometry decomposition and two-stage training make our method robust and our model outperforms existing methods in terms of reconstruction accuracy and novel view synthesis under low-view settings. Additionally, the pre-trained template serves a good initialization for our model to adapt to unseen individuals.
Seeing Through the Glass: Neural 3D Reconstruction of Object Inside a Transparent Container
In this paper, we define a new problem of recovering the 3D geometry of an object confined in a transparent enclosure. We also propose a novel method for solving this challenging problem. Transparent enclosures pose challenges of multiple light reflections and refractions at the interface between different propagation media e.g. air or glass. These multiple reflections and refractions cause serious image distortions which invalidate the single viewpoint assumption. Hence the 3D geometry of such objects cannot be reliably reconstructed using existing methods, such as traditional structure from motion or modern neural reconstruction methods. We solve this problem by explicitly modeling the scene as two distinct sub-spaces, inside and outside the transparent enclosure. We use an existing neural reconstruction method (NeuS) that implicitly represents the geometry and appearance of the inner subspace. In order to account for complex light interactions, we develop a hybrid rendering strategy that combines volume rendering with ray tracing. We then recover the underlying geometry and appearance of the model by minimizing the difference between the real and hybrid rendered images. We evaluate our method on both synthetic and real data. Experiment results show that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art (SOTA) methods. Codes and data will be available at https://github.com/hirotong/ReNeuS
Theoretical and Numerical Analysis of 3D Reconstruction Using Point and Line Incidences
We study the joint image of lines incident to points, meaning the set of image tuples obtained from fixed cameras observing a varying 3D point-line incidence. We prove a formula for the number of complex critical points of the triangulation problem that aims to compute a 3D point-line incidence from noisy images. Our formula works for an arbitrary number of images and measures the intrinsic difficulty of this triangulation. Additionally, we conduct numerical experiments using homotopy continuation methods, comparing different approaches of triangulation of such incidences. In our setup, exploiting the incidence relations gives both a faster point reconstruction and in three views more accurate.
SCADE: NeRFs from Space Carving with Ambiguity-Aware Depth Estimates
Neural radiance fields (NeRFs) have enabled high fidelity 3D reconstruction from multiple 2D input views. However, a well-known drawback of NeRFs is the less-than-ideal performance under a small number of views, due to insufficient constraints enforced by volumetric rendering. To address this issue, we introduce SCADE, a novel technique that improves NeRF reconstruction quality on sparse, unconstrained input views for in-the-wild indoor scenes. To constrain NeRF reconstruction, we leverage geometric priors in the form of per-view depth estimates produced with state-of-the-art monocular depth estimation models, which can generalize across scenes. A key challenge is that monocular depth estimation is an ill-posed problem, with inherent ambiguities. To handle this issue, we propose a new method that learns to predict, for each view, a continuous, multimodal distribution of depth estimates using conditional Implicit Maximum Likelihood Estimation (cIMLE). In order to disambiguate exploiting multiple views, we introduce an original space carving loss that guides the NeRF representation to fuse multiple hypothesized depth maps from each view and distill from them a common geometry that is consistent with all views. Experiments show that our approach enables higher fidelity novel view synthesis from sparse views. Our project page can be found at https://scade-spacecarving-nerfs.github.io .
Robust single-shot 3D fluorescence imaging in scattering media with a simulator-trained neural network
Imaging through scattering is a pervasive and difficult problem in many biological applications. The high background and the exponentially attenuated target signals due to scattering fundamentally limits the imaging depth of fluorescence microscopy. Light-field systems are favorable for high-speed volumetric imaging, but the 2D-to-3D reconstruction is fundamentally ill-posed and scattering exacerbates the condition of the inverse problem. Here, we develop a scattering simulator that models low-contrast target signals buried in heterogeneous strong background. We then train a deep neural network solely on synthetic data to descatter and reconstruct a 3D volume from a single-shot light-field measurement with low signal-to-background ratio (SBR). We apply this network to our previously developed Computational Miniature Mesoscope and demonstrate the robustness of our deep learning algorithm on a 75 micron thick fixed mouse brain section and on bulk scattering phantoms with different scattering conditions. The network can robustly reconstruct emitters in 3D with a 2D measurement of SBR as low as 1.05 and as deep as a scattering length. We analyze fundamental tradeoffs based on network design factors and out-of-distribution data that affect the deep learning model's generalizability to real experimental data. Broadly, we believe that our simulator-based deep learning approach can be applied to a wide range of imaging through scattering techniques where experimental paired training data is lacking.
Oral-NeXF: 3D Oral Reconstruction with Neural X-ray Field from Panoramic Imaging
3D reconstruction of medical images from 2D images has increasingly become a challenging research topic with the advanced development of deep learning methods. Previous work in 3D reconstruction from limited (generally one or two) X-ray images mainly relies on learning from paired 2D and 3D images. In 3D oral reconstruction from panoramic imaging, the model also relies on some prior individual information, such as the dental arch curve or voxel-wise annotations, to restore the curved shape of the mandible during reconstruction. These limitations have hindered the use of single X-ray tomography in clinical applications. To address these challenges, we propose a new model that relies solely on projection data, including imaging direction and projection image, during panoramic scans to reconstruct the 3D oral structure. Our model builds on the neural radiance field by introducing multi-head prediction, dynamic sampling, and adaptive rendering, which accommodates the projection process of panoramic X-ray in dental imaging. Compared to end-to-end learning methods, our method achieves state-of-the-art performance without requiring additional supervision or prior knowledge.
Real-time volumetric rendering of dynamic humans
We present a method for fast 3D reconstruction and real-time rendering of dynamic humans from monocular videos with accompanying parametric body fits. Our method can reconstruct a dynamic human in less than 3h using a single GPU, compared to recent state-of-the-art alternatives that take up to 72h. These speedups are obtained by using a lightweight deformation model solely based on linear blend skinning, and an efficient factorized volumetric representation for modeling the shape and color of the person in canonical pose. Moreover, we propose a novel local ray marching rendering which, by exploiting standard GPU hardware and without any baking or conversion of the radiance field, allows visualizing the neural human on a mobile VR device at 40 frames per second with minimal loss of visual quality. Our experimental evaluation shows superior or competitive results with state-of-the art methods while obtaining large training speedup, using a simple model, and achieving real-time rendering.
Zero-1-to-3: Zero-shot One Image to 3D Object
We introduce Zero-1-to-3, a framework for changing the camera viewpoint of an object given just a single RGB image. To perform novel view synthesis in this under-constrained setting, we capitalize on the geometric priors that large-scale diffusion models learn about natural images. Our conditional diffusion model uses a synthetic dataset to learn controls of the relative camera viewpoint, which allow new images to be generated of the same object under a specified camera transformation. Even though it is trained on a synthetic dataset, our model retains a strong zero-shot generalization ability to out-of-distribution datasets as well as in-the-wild images, including impressionist paintings. Our viewpoint-conditioned diffusion approach can further be used for the task of 3D reconstruction from a single image. Qualitative and quantitative experiments show that our method significantly outperforms state-of-the-art single-view 3D reconstruction and novel view synthesis models by leveraging Internet-scale pre-training.
DIME-Net: Neural Network-Based Dynamic Intrinsic Parameter Rectification for Cameras with Optical Image Stabilization System
Optical Image Stabilization (OIS) system in mobile devices reduces image blurring by steering lens to compensate for hand jitters. However, OIS changes intrinsic camera parameters (i.e. $\mathrm{K}$ matrix) dynamically which hinders accurate camera pose estimation or 3D reconstruction. Here we propose a novel neural network-based approach that estimates $\mathrm{K}$ matrix in real-time so that pose estimation or scene reconstruction can be run at camera native resolution for the highest accuracy on mobile devices. Our network design takes gratified projection model discrepancy feature and 3D point positions as inputs and employs a Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP) to approximate $f_{\mathrm{K}}$ manifold. We also design a unique training scheme for this network by introducing a Back propagated PnP (BPnP) layer so that reprojection error can be adopted as the loss function. The training process utilizes precise calibration patterns for capturing accurate $f_{\mathrm{K}}$ manifold but the trained network can be used anywhere. We name the proposed Dynamic Intrinsic Manifold Estimation network as DIME-Net and have it implemented and tested on three different mobile devices. In all cases, DIME-Net can reduce reprojection error by at least $64\%$ indicating that our design is successful.
Ref-NeuS: Ambiguity-Reduced Neural Implicit Surface Learning for Multi-View Reconstruction with Reflection
Neural implicit surface learning has shown significant progress in multi-view 3D reconstruction, where an object is represented by multilayer perceptrons that provide continuous implicit surface representation and view-dependent radiance. However, current methods often fail to accurately reconstruct reflective surfaces, leading to severe ambiguity. To overcome this issue, we propose Ref-NeuS, which aims to reduce ambiguity by attenuating the importance of reflective surfaces. Specifically, we utilize an anomaly detector to estimate an explicit reflection score with the guidance of multi-view context to localize reflective surfaces. Afterward, we design a reflection-aware photometric loss that adaptively reduces ambiguity by modeling rendered color as a Gaussian distribution, with the reflection score representing the variance. We show that together with a reflection direction-dependent radiance, our model achieves high-quality surface reconstruction on reflective surfaces and outperforms the state-of-the-arts by a large margin. Besides, our model is also comparable on general surfaces.
Fast 3D Volumetric Image Reconstruction from 2D MRI Slices by Parallel Processing
Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) is a technology for non-invasive imaging of anatomical features in detail. It can help in functional analysis of organs of a specimen but it is very costly. In this work, methods for (i) virtual three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction from a single sequence of two-dimensional (2D) slices of MR images of a human spine and brain along a single axis, and (ii) generation of missing inter-slice data are proposed. Our approach helps in preserving the edges, shape, size, as well as the internal tissue structures of the object being captured. The sequence of original 2D slices along a single axis is divided into smaller equal sub-parts which are then reconstructed using edge preserved kriging interpolation to predict the missing slice information. In order to speed up the process of interpolation, we have used multiprocessing by carrying out the initial interpolation on parallel cores. From the 3D matrix thus formed, shearlet transform is applied to estimate the edges considering the 2D blocks along the $Z$ axis, and to minimize the blurring effect using a proposed mean-median logic. Finally, for visualization, the sub-matrices are merged into a final 3D matrix. Next, the newly formed 3D matrix is split up into voxels and marching cubes method is applied to get the approximate 3D image for viewing. To the best of our knowledge it is a first of its kind approach based on kriging interpolation and multiprocessing for 3D reconstruction from 2D slices, and approximately 98.89\% accuracy is achieved with respect to similarity metrics for image comparison. The time required for reconstruction has also been reduced by approximately 70\% with multiprocessing even for a large input data set compared to that with single core processing.
FingerSLAM: Closed-loop Unknown Object Localization and Reconstruction from Visuo-tactile Feedback
In this paper, we address the problem of using visuo-tactile feedback for 6-DoF localization and 3D reconstruction of unknown in-hand objects. We propose FingerSLAM, a closed-loop factor graph-based pose estimator that combines local tactile sensing at finger-tip and global vision sensing from a wrist-mount camera. FingerSLAM is constructed with two constituent pose estimators: a multi-pass refined tactile-based pose estimator that captures movements from detailed local textures, and a single-pass vision-based pose estimator that predicts from a global view of the object. We also design a loop closure mechanism that actively matches current vision and tactile images to previously stored key-frames to reduce accumulated error. FingerSLAM incorporates the two sensing modalities of tactile and vision, as well as the loop closure mechanism with a factor graph-based optimization framework. Such a framework produces an optimized pose estimation solution that is more accurate than the standalone estimators. The estimated poses are then used to reconstruct the shape of the unknown object incrementally by stitching the local point clouds recovered from tactile images. We train our system on real-world data collected with 20 objects. We demonstrate reliable visuo-tactile pose estimation and shape reconstruction through quantitative and qualitative real-world evaluations on 6 objects that are unseen during training.
Normal-guided Garment UV Prediction for Human Re-texturing
Clothes undergo complex geometric deformations, which lead to appearance changes. To edit human videos in a physically plausible way, a texture map must take into account not only the garment transformation induced by the body movements and clothes fitting, but also its 3D fine-grained surface geometry. This poses, however, a new challenge of 3D reconstruction of dynamic clothes from an image or a video. In this paper, we show that it is possible to edit dressed human images and videos without 3D reconstruction. We estimate a geometry aware texture map between the garment region in an image and the texture space, a.k.a, UV map. Our UV map is designed to preserve isometry with respect to the underlying 3D surface by making use of the 3D surface normals predicted from the image. Our approach captures the underlying geometry of the garment in a self-supervised way, requiring no ground truth annotation of UV maps and can be readily extended to predict temporally coherent UV maps. We demonstrate that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art human UV map estimation approaches on both real and synthetic data.
Just Flip: Flipped Observation Generation and Optimization for Neural Radiance Fields to Cover Unobserved View
With the advent of Neural Radiance Field (NeRF), representing 3D scenes through multiple observations has shown remarkable improvements in performance. Since this cutting-edge technique is able to obtain high-resolution renderings by interpolating dense 3D environments, various approaches have been proposed to apply NeRF for the spatial understanding of robot perception. However, previous works are challenging to represent unobserved scenes or views on the unexplored robot trajectory, as these works do not take into account 3D reconstruction without observation information. To overcome this problem, we propose a method to generate flipped observation in order to cover unexisting observation for unexplored robot trajectory. To achieve this, we propose a data augmentation method for 3D reconstruction using NeRF by flipping observed images, and estimating flipped camera 6DOF poses. Our technique exploits the property of objects being geometrically symmetric, making it simple but fast and powerful, thereby making it suitable for robotic applications where real-time performance is important. We demonstrate that our method significantly improves three representative perceptual quality measures on the NeRF synthetic dataset.
ACR: Attention Collaboration-based Regressor for Arbitrary Two-Hand Reconstruction
Reconstructing two hands from monocular RGB images is challenging due to frequent occlusion and mutual confusion. Existing methods mainly learn an entangled representation to encode two interacting hands, which are incredibly fragile to impaired interaction, such as truncated hands, separate hands, or external occlusion. This paper presents ACR (Attention Collaboration-based Regressor), which makes the first attempt to reconstruct hands in arbitrary scenarios. To achieve this, ACR explicitly mitigates interdependencies between hands and between parts by leveraging center and part-based attention for feature extraction. However, reducing interdependence helps release the input constraint while weakening the mutual reasoning about reconstructing the interacting hands. Thus, based on center attention, ACR also learns cross-hand prior that handle the interacting hands better. We evaluate our method on various types of hand reconstruction datasets. Our method significantly outperforms the best interacting-hand approaches on the InterHand2.6M dataset while yielding comparable performance with the state-of-the-art single-hand methods on the FreiHand dataset. More qualitative results on in-the-wild and hand-object interaction datasets and web images/videos further demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach for arbitrary hand reconstruction. Our code is available at https://github.com/ZhengdiYu/Arbitrary-Hands-3D-Reconstruction.
Structural Multiplane Image: Bridging Neural View Synthesis and 3D Reconstruction
The Multiplane Image (MPI), containing a set of fronto-parallel RGBA layers, is an effective and efficient representation for view synthesis from sparse inputs. Yet, its fixed structure limits the performance, especially for surfaces imaged at oblique angles. We introduce the Structural MPI (S-MPI), where the plane structure approximates 3D scenes concisely. Conveying RGBA contexts with geometrically-faithful structures, the S-MPI directly bridges view synthesis and 3D reconstruction. It can not only overcome the critical limitations of MPI, i.e., discretization artifacts from sloped surfaces and abuse of redundant layers, and can also acquire planar 3D reconstruction. Despite the intuition and demand of applying S-MPI, great challenges are introduced, e.g., high-fidelity approximation for both RGBA layers and plane poses, multi-view consistency, non-planar regions modeling, and efficient rendering with intersected planes. Accordingly, we propose a transformer-based network based on a segmentation model. It predicts compact and expressive S-MPI layers with their corresponding masks, poses, and RGBA contexts. Non-planar regions are inclusively handled as a special case in our unified framework. Multi-view consistency is ensured by sharing global proxy embeddings, which encode plane-level features covering the complete 3D scenes with aligned coordinates. Intensive experiments show that our method outperforms both previous state-of-the-art MPI-based view synthesis methods and planar reconstruction methods.
FastSurf: Fast Neural RGB-D Surface Reconstruction using Per-Frame Intrinsic Refinement and TSDF Fusion Prior Learning
We introduce FastSurf, an accelerated neural radiance field (NeRF) framework that incorporates depth information for 3D reconstruction. A dense feature grid and shallow multi-layer perceptron are used for fast and accurate surface optimization of the entire scene. Our per-frame intrinsic refinement scheme corrects the frame-specific errors that cannot be handled by global optimization. Furthermore, FastSurf utilizes a classical real-time 3D surface reconstruction method, the truncated signed distance field (TSDF) Fusion, as prior knowledge to pretrain the feature grid to accelerate the training. The quantitative and qualitative experiments comparing the performances of FastSurf against prior work indicate that our method is capable of quickly and accurately reconstructing a scene with high-frequency details. We also demonstrate the effectiveness of our per-frame intrinsic refinement and TSDF Fusion prior learning techniques via an ablation study.
Corner Detection Based on Multi-directional Gabor Filters with Multi-scales
Gabor wavelet is an essential tool for image analysis and computer vision tasks. Local structure tensors with multiple scales are widely used in local feature extraction. Our research indicates that the current corner detection method based on Gabor wavelets can not effectively apply to complex scenes. In this work, the capability of the Gabor function to discriminate the intensity changes of step edges, L-shaped corners, Y-shaped or T-shaped corners, X-shaped corners, and star-shaped corners are investigated. The properties of Gabor wavelets to suppress affine image transformation are investigated and obtained. Many properties for edges and corners were discovered, which prompted us to propose a new corner extraction method. To fully use the structural information from the tuned Gabor filters, a novel multi-directional structure tensor is constructed for corner detection, and a multi-scale corner measurement function is proposed to remove false candidate corners. Furthermore, we compare the proposed method with twelve current state-of-the-art methods, which exhibit optimal performance and practical application to 3D reconstruction with good application potential.
DroNeRF: Real-time Multi-agent Drone Pose Optimization for Computing Neural Radiance Fields
We present a novel optimization algorithm called DroNeRF for the autonomous positioning of monocular camera drones around an object for real-time 3D reconstruction using only a few images. Neural Radiance Fields or NeRF, is a novel view synthesis technique used to generate new views of an object or scene from a set of input images. Using drones in conjunction with NeRF provides a unique and dynamic way to generate novel views of a scene, especially with limited scene capabilities of restricted movements. Our approach focuses on calculating optimized pose for individual drones while solely depending on the object geometry without using any external localization system. The unique camera positioning during the data-capturing phase significantly impacts the quality of the 3D model. To evaluate the quality of our generated novel views, we compute different perceptual metrics like the Peak Signal-to-Noise Ratio (PSNR) and Structural Similarity Index Measure(SSIM). Our work demonstrates the benefit of using an optimal placement of various drones with limited mobility to generate perceptually better results.
Proactive Multi-Camera Collaboration For 3D Human Pose Estimation
This paper presents a multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) scheme for proactive Multi-Camera Collaboration in 3D Human Pose Estimation in dynamic human crowds. Traditional fixed-viewpoint multi-camera solutions for human motion capture (MoCap) are limited in capture space and susceptible to dynamic occlusions. Active camera approaches proactively control camera poses to find optimal viewpoints for 3D reconstruction. However, current methods still face challenges with credit assignment and environment dynamics. To address these issues, our proposed method introduces a novel Collaborative Triangulation Contribution Reward (CTCR) that improves convergence and alleviates multi-agent credit assignment issues resulting from using 3D reconstruction accuracy as the shared reward. Additionally, we jointly train our model with multiple world dynamics learning tasks to better capture environment dynamics and encourage anticipatory behaviors for occlusion avoidance. We evaluate our proposed method in four photo-realistic UE4 environments to ensure validity and generalizability. Empirical results show that our method outperforms fixed and active baselines in various scenarios with different numbers of cameras and humans.
System for 3D Acquisition and 3D Reconstruction using Structured Light for Sewer Line Inspection
The assessment of sewer pipe systems is a highly important, but at the same time cumbersome and error-prone task. We introduce an innovative system based on single-shot structured light modules that facilitates the detection and classification of spatial defects like jutting intrusions, spallings, or misaligned joints. This system creates highly accurate 3D measurements with sub-millimeter resolution of pipe surfaces and fuses them into a holistic 3D model. The benefit of such a holistic 3D model is twofold: on the one hand, it facilitates the accurate manual sewer pipe assessment, on the other, it simplifies the detection of defects in downstream automatic systems as it endows the input with highly accurate depth information. In this work, we provide an extensive overview of the system and give valuable insights into our design choices.
Delicate Textured Mesh Recovery from NeRF via Adaptive Surface Refinement
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have constituted a remarkable breakthrough in image-based 3D reconstruction. However, their implicit volumetric representations differ significantly from the widely-adopted polygonal meshes and lack support from common 3D software and hardware, making their rendering and manipulation inefficient. To overcome this limitation, we present a novel framework that generates textured surface meshes from images. Our approach begins by efficiently initializing the geometry and view-dependency decomposed appearance with a NeRF. Subsequently, a coarse mesh is extracted, and an iterative surface refining algorithm is developed to adaptively adjust both vertex positions and face density based on re-projected rendering errors. We jointly refine the appearance with geometry and bake it into texture images for real-time rendering. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method achieves superior mesh quality and competitive rendering quality.
MobileBrick: Building LEGO for 3D Reconstruction on Mobile Devices
High-quality 3D ground-truth shapes are critical for 3D object reconstruction evaluation. However, it is difficult to create a replica of an object in reality, and even 3D reconstructions generated by 3D scanners have artefacts that cause biases in evaluation. To address this issue, we introduce a novel multi-view RGBD dataset captured using a mobile device, which includes highly precise 3D ground-truth annotations for 153 object models featuring a diverse set of 3D structures. We obtain precise 3D ground-truth shape without relying on high-end 3D scanners by utilising LEGO models with known geometry as the 3D structures for image capture. The distinct data modality offered by high-resolution RGB images and low-resolution depth maps captured on a mobile device, when combined with precise 3D geometry annotations, presents a unique opportunity for future research on high-fidelity 3D reconstruction. Furthermore, we evaluate a range of 3D reconstruction algorithms on the proposed dataset. Project page: http://code.active.vision/MobileBrick/
X-Ray2EM: Uncertainty-Aware Cross-Modality Image Reconstruction from X-Ray to Electron Microscopy in Connectomics
Comprehensive, synapse-resolution imaging of the brain will be crucial for understanding neuronal computations and function. In connectomics, this has been the sole purview of volume electron microscopy (EM), which entails an excruciatingly difficult process because it requires cutting tissue into many thin, fragile slices that then need to be imaged, aligned, and reconstructed. Unlike EM, hard X-ray imaging is compatible with thick tissues, eliminating the need for thin sectioning, and delivering fast acquisition, intrinsic alignment, and isotropic resolution. Unfortunately, current state-of-the-art X-ray microscopy provides much lower resolution, to the extent that segmenting membranes is very challenging. We propose an uncertainty-aware 3D reconstruction model that translates X-ray images to EM-like images with enhanced membrane segmentation quality, showing its potential for developing simpler, faster, and more accurate X-ray based connectomics pipelines.
Motion Compensation via Epipolar Consistency for In-Vivo X-Ray Microscopy
Intravital X-ray microscopy (XRM) in preclinical mouse models is of vital importance for the identification of microscopic structural pathological changes in the bone which are characteristic of osteoporosis. The complexity of this method stems from the requirement for high-quality 3D reconstructions of the murine bones. However, respiratory motion and muscle relaxation lead to inconsistencies in the projection data which result in artifacts in uncompensated reconstructions. Motion compensation using epipolar consistency conditions (ECC) has previously shown good performance in clinical CT settings. Here, we explore whether such algorithms are suitable for correcting motion-corrupted XRM data. Different rigid motion patterns are simulated and the quality of the motion-compensated reconstructions is assessed. The method is able to restore microscopic features for out-of-plane motion, but artifacts remain for more realistic motion patterns including all six degrees of freedom of rigid motion. Therefore, ECC is valuable for the initial alignment of the projection data followed by further fine-tuning of motion parameters using a reconstruction-based method
3D Coronary Vessel Reconstruction from Bi-Plane Angiography using Graph Convolutional Networks
X-ray coronary angiography (XCA) is used to assess coronary artery disease and provides valuable information on lesion morphology and severity. However, XCA images are 2D and therefore limit visualisation of the vessel. 3D reconstruction of coronary vessels is possible using multiple views, however lumen border detection in current software is performed manually resulting in limited reproducibility and slow processing time. In this study we propose 3DAngioNet, a novel deep learning (DL) system that enables rapid 3D vessel mesh reconstruction using 2D XCA images from two views. Our approach learns a coarse mesh template using an EfficientB3-UNet segmentation network and projection geometries, and deforms it using a graph convolutional network. 3DAngioNet outperforms similar automated reconstruction methods, offers improved efficiency, and enables modelling of bifurcated vessels. The approach was validated using state-of-the-art software verified by skilled cardiologists.
Mask3D: Pre-training 2D Vision Transformers by Learning Masked 3D Priors
Current popular backbones in computer vision, such as Vision Transformers (ViT) and ResNets are trained to perceive the world from 2D images. However, to more effectively understand 3D structural priors in 2D backbones, we propose Mask3D to leverage existing large-scale RGB-D data in a self-supervised pre-training to embed these 3D priors into 2D learned feature representations. In contrast to traditional 3D contrastive learning paradigms requiring 3D reconstructions or multi-view correspondences, our approach is simple: we formulate a pre-text reconstruction task by masking RGB and depth patches in individual RGB-D frames. We demonstrate the Mask3D is particularly effective in embedding 3D priors into the powerful 2D ViT backbone, enabling improved representation learning for various scene understanding tasks, such as semantic segmentation, instance segmentation and object detection. Experiments show that Mask3D notably outperforms existing self-supervised 3D pre-training approaches on ScanNet, NYUv2, and Cityscapes image understanding tasks, with an improvement of +6.5% mIoU against the state-of-the-art Pri3D on ScanNet image semantic segmentation.
UMIFormer: Mining the Correlations between Similar Tokens for Multi-View 3D Reconstruction
In recent years, many video tasks have achieved breakthroughs by utilizing the vision transformer and establishing spatial-temporal decoupling for feature extraction. Although multi-view 3D reconstruction also faces multiple images as input, it cannot immediately inherit their success due to completely ambiguous associations between unordered views. There is not usable prior relationship, which is similar to the temporally-coherence property in a video. To solve this problem, we propose a novel transformer network for Unordered Multiple Images (UMIFormer). It exploits transformer blocks for decoupled intra-view encoding and designed blocks for token rectification that mine the correlation between similar tokens from different views to achieve decoupled inter-view encoding. Afterward, all tokens acquired from various branches are compressed into a fixed-size compact representation while preserving rich information for reconstruction by leveraging the similarities between tokens. We empirically demonstrate on ShapeNet and confirm that our decoupled learning method is adaptable for unordered multiple images. Meanwhile, the experiments also verify our model outperforms existing SOTA methods by a large margin.
Perceiving Unseen 3D Objects by Poking the Objects
We present a novel approach to interactive 3D object perception for robots. Unlike previous perception algorithms that rely on known object models or a large amount of annotated training data, we propose a poking-based approach that automatically discovers and reconstructs 3D objects. The poking process not only enables the robot to discover unseen 3D objects but also produces multi-view observations for 3D reconstruction of the objects. The reconstructed objects are then memorized by neural networks with regular supervised learning and can be recognized in new test images. The experiments on real-world data show that our approach could unsupervisedly discover and reconstruct unseen 3D objects with high quality, and facilitate real-world applications such as robotic grasping. The code and supplementary materials are available at the project page: https://zju3dv.github.io/poking_perception.
SUPS: A Simulated Underground Parking Scenario Dataset for Autonomous Driving
Automatic underground parking has attracted considerable attention as the scope of autonomous driving expands. The auto-vehicle is supposed to obtain the environmental information, track its location, and build a reliable map of the scenario. Mainstream solutions consist of well-trained neural networks and simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) methods, which need numerous carefully labeled images and multiple sensor estimations. However, there is a lack of underground parking scenario datasets with multiple sensors and well-labeled images that support both SLAM tasks and perception tasks, such as semantic segmentation and parking slot detection. In this paper, we present SUPS, a simulated dataset for underground automatic parking, which supports multiple tasks with multiple sensors and multiple semantic labels aligned with successive images according to timestamps. We intend to cover the defect of existing datasets with the variability of environments and the diversity and accessibility of sensors in the virtual scene. Specifically, the dataset records frames from four surrounding fisheye cameras, two forward pinhole cameras, a depth camera, and data from LiDAR, inertial measurement unit (IMU), GNSS. Pixel-level semantic labels are provided for objects, especially ground signs such as arrows, parking lines, lanes, and speed bumps. Perception, 3D reconstruction, depth estimation, and SLAM, and other relative tasks are supported by our dataset. We also evaluate the state-of-the-art SLAM algorithms and perception models on our dataset. Finally, we open source our virtual 3D scene built based on Unity Engine and release our dataset at https://github.com/jarvishou829/SUPS.
3D Surface Reconstruction in the Wild by Deforming Shape Priors from Synthetic Data
Reconstructing the underlying 3D surface of an object from a single image is a challenging problem that has received extensive attention from the computer vision community. Many learning-based approaches tackle this problem by learning a 3D shape prior from either ground truth 3D data or multi-view observations. To achieve state-of-the-art results, these methods assume that the objects are specified with respect to a fixed canonical coordinate frame, where instances of the same category are perfectly aligned. In this work, we present a new method for joint category-specific 3D reconstruction and object pose estimation from a single image. We show that one can leverage shape priors learned on purely synthetic 3D data together with a point cloud pose canonicalization method to achieve high-quality 3D reconstruction in the wild. Given a single depth image at test time, we first transform this partial point cloud into a learned canonical frame. Then, we use a neural deformation field to reconstruct the 3D surface of the object. Finally, we jointly optimize object pose and 3D shape to fit the partial depth observation. Our approach achieves state-of-the-art reconstruction performance across several real-world datasets, even when trained only on synthetic data. We further show that our method generalizes to different input modalities, from dense depth images to sparse and noisy LIDAR scans.
View Consistency Aware Holistic Triangulation for 3D Human Pose Estimation
The rapid development of multi-view 3D human pose estimation (HPE) is attributed to the maturation of monocular 2D HPE and the geometry of 3D reconstruction. However, 2D detection outliers in occluded views due to neglect of view consistency, and 3D implausible poses due to lack of pose coherence, remain challenges. To solve this, we introduce a Multi-View Fusion module to refine 2D results by establishing view correlations. Then, Holistic Triangulation is proposed to infer the whole pose as an entirety, and anatomy prior is injected to maintain the pose coherence and improve the plausibility. Anatomy prior is extracted by PCA whose input is skeletal structure features, which can factor out global context and joint-by-joint relationship from abstract to concrete. Benefiting from the closed-form solution, the whole framework is trained end-to-end. Our method outperforms the state of the art in both precision and plausibility which is assessed by a new metric.
$PC^2$: Projection-Conditioned Point Cloud Diffusion for Single-Image 3D Reconstruction
Reconstructing the 3D shape of an object from a single RGB image is a long-standing and highly challenging problem in computer vision. In this paper, we propose a novel method for single-image 3D reconstruction which generates a sparse point cloud via a conditional denoising diffusion process. Our method takes as input a single RGB image along with its camera pose and gradually denoises a set of 3D points, whose positions are initially sampled randomly from a three-dimensional Gaussian distribution, into the shape of an object. The key to our method is a geometrically-consistent conditioning process which we call projection conditioning: at each step in the diffusion process, we project local image features onto the partially-denoised point cloud from the given camera pose. This projection conditioning process enables us to generate high-resolution sparse geometries that are well-aligned with the input image, and can additionally be used to predict point colors after shape reconstruction. Moreover, due to the probabilistic nature of the diffusion process, our method is naturally capable of generating multiple different shapes consistent with a single input image. In contrast to prior work, our approach not only performs well on synthetic benchmarks, but also gives large qualitative improvements on complex real-world data.
RealFusion: 360 Reconstruction of Any Object from a Single Image
We consider the problem of reconstructing a full 360{\deg} photographic model of an object from a single image of it. We do so by fitting a neural radiance field to the image, but find this problem to be severely ill-posed. We thus take an off-the-self conditional image generator based on diffusion and engineer a prompt that encourages it to "dream up" novel views of the object. Using an approach inspired by DreamFields and DreamFusion, we fuse the given input view, the conditional prior, and other regularizers in a final, consistent reconstruction. We demonstrate state-of-the-art reconstruction results on benchmark images when compared to prior methods for monocular 3D reconstruction of objects. Qualitatively, our reconstructions provide a faithful match of the input view and a plausible extrapolation of its appearance and 3D shape, including to the side of the object not visible in the image.
UAVStereo: A Multiple Resolution Dataset for Stereo Matching in UAV Scenarios
Stereo matching is a fundamental task for 3D scene reconstruction. Recently, deep learning based methods have proven effective on some benchmark datasets, such as KITTI and Scene Flow. UAVs (Unmanned Aerial Vehicles) are commonly utilized for surface observation, and their captured images are frequently used for detailed 3D reconstruction due to high resolution and low-altitude acquisition. At present, the mainstream supervised learning network requires a significant amount of training data with ground-truth labels to learn model parameters. However, due to the scarcity of UAV stereo matching datasets, the learning-based network cannot be applied to UAV images. To facilitate further research, this paper proposes a novel pipeline to generate accurate and dense disparity maps using detailed meshes reconstructed by UAV images and LiDAR point clouds. Through the proposed pipeline, this paper constructs a multi-resolution UAV scenario dataset, called UAVStereo, with over 34k stereo image pairs covering 3 typical scenes. As far as we know, UAVStereo is the first stereo matching dataset of UAV low-altitude scenarios. The dataset includes synthetic and real stereo pairs to enable generalization from the synthetic domain to the real domain. Furthermore, our UAVStereo dataset provides multi-resolution and multi-scene images pairs to accommodate a variety of sensors and environments. In this paper, we evaluate traditional and state-of-the-art deep learning methods, highlighting their limitations in addressing challenges in UAV scenarios and offering suggestions for future research. The dataset is available at https://github.com/rebecca0011/UAVStereo.git
3D Target Detection and Spectral Classification for Single-photon LiDAR Data
3D single-photon LiDAR imaging has an important role in many applications. However, full deployment of this modality will require the analysis of low signal to noise ratio target returns and a very high volume of data. This is particularly evident when imaging through obscurants or in high ambient background light conditions. This paper proposes a multiscale approach for 3D surface detection from the photon timing histogram to permit a significant reduction in data volume. The resulting surfaces are background-free and can be used to infer depth and reflectivity information about the target. We demonstrate this by proposing a hierarchical Bayesian model for 3D reconstruction and spectral classification of multispectral single-photon LiDAR data. The reconstruction method promotes spatial correlation between point-cloud estimates and uses a coordinate gradient descent algorithm for parameter estimation. Results on simulated and real data show the benefits of the proposed target detection and reconstruction approaches when compared to state-of-the-art processing algorithms
A Simplified 3D Ultrasound Freehand Imaging Framework Using 1D Linear Probe and Low-Cost Mechanical Track
Ultrasound imaging is the most popular medical imaging modality for point-of-care bedside imaging. However, 2D ultrasound imaging provides only limited views of the organ of interest, making diagnosis challenging. To overcome this, 3D ultrasound imaging was developed, which uses 2D ultrasound images and their orientation/position to reconstruct 3D volumes. The accurate position estimation of the ultrasound probe at low cost has always stood as a challenging task in 3D reconstruction. In this study, we propose a novel approach of using a mechanical track for ultrasound scanning, which restricts the probe motion to a linear plane, simplifying the acquisition and hence the reconstruction process. We also present an end-to-end pipeline for 3D ultrasound volume reconstruction and demonstrate its efficacy with an in-vitro tube phantom study and an ex-vivo bone experiment. The comparison between a sensorless freehand and the proposed mechanical track based acquisition is available online (shorturl.at/jqvX0).
HR-NeuS: Recovering High-Frequency Surface Geometry via Neural Implicit Surfaces
Recent advances in neural implicit surfaces for multi-view 3D reconstruction primarily focus on improving large-scale surface reconstruction accuracy, but often produce over-smoothed geometries that lack fine surface details. To address this, we present High-Resolution NeuS (HR-NeuS), a novel neural implicit surface reconstruction method that recovers high-frequency surface geometry while maintaining large-scale reconstruction accuracy. We achieve this by utilizing (i) multi-resolution hash grid encoding rather than positional encoding at high frequencies, which boosts our model's expressiveness of local geometry details; (ii) a coarse-to-fine algorithmic framework that selectively applies surface regularization to coarse geometry without smoothing away fine details; (iii) a coarse-to-fine grid annealing strategy to train the network. We demonstrate through experiments on DTU and BlendedMVS datasets that our approach produces 3D geometries that are qualitatively more detailed and quantitatively of similar accuracy compared to previous approaches.
Boosted ab initio Cryo-EM 3D Reconstruction with ACE-EM
The central problem in cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) is to recover the 3D structure from noisy 2D projection images which requires estimating the missing projection angles (poses). Recent methods attempted to solve the 3D reconstruction problem with the autoencoder architecture, which suffers from the latent vector space sampling problem and frequently produces suboptimal pose inferences and inferior 3D reconstructions. Here we present an improved autoencoder architecture called ACE (Asymmetric Complementary autoEncoder), based on which we designed the ACE-EM method for cryo-EM 3D reconstructions. Compared to previous methods, ACE-EM reached higher pose space coverage within the same training time and boosted the reconstruction performance regardless of the choice of decoders. With this method, the Nyquist resolution (highest possible resolution) was reached for 3D reconstructions of both simulated and experimental cryo-EM datasets. Furthermore, ACE-EM is the only amortized inference method that reached the Nyquist resolution.
3D Colored Shape Reconstruction from a Single RGB Image through Diffusion
We propose a novel 3d colored shape reconstruction method from a single RGB image through diffusion model. Diffusion models have shown great development potentials for high-quality 3D shape generation. However, most existing work based on diffusion models only focus on geometric shape generation, they cannot either accomplish 3D reconstruction from a single image, or produce 3D geometric shape with color information. In this work, we propose to reconstruct a 3D colored shape from a single RGB image through a novel conditional diffusion model. The reverse process of the proposed diffusion model is consisted of three modules, shape prediction module, color prediction module and NeRF-like rendering module. In shape prediction module, the reference RGB image is first encoded into a high-level shape feature and then the shape feature is utilized as a condition to predict the reverse geometric noise in diffusion model. Then the color of each 3D point updated in shape prediction module is predicted by color prediction module. Finally, a NeRF-like rendering module is designed to render the colored point cloud predicted by the former two modules to 2D image space to guide the training conditioned only on a reference image. As far as the authors know, the proposed method is the first diffusion model for 3D colored shape reconstruction from a single RGB image. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method achieves competitive performance on colored 3D shape reconstruction, and the ablation study validates the positive role of the color prediction module in improving the reconstruction quality of 3D geometric point cloud.
3D reconstruction from spherical images: A review of techniques, applications, and prospects
3D reconstruction plays an increasingly important role in modern photogrammetric systems. Conventional satellite or aerial-based remote sensing (RS) platforms can provide the necessary data sources for the 3D reconstruction of large-scale landforms and cities. Even with low-altitude UAVs (Unmanned Aerial Vehicles), 3D reconstruction in complicated situations, such as urban canyons and indoor scenes, is challenging due to frequent tracking failures between camera frames and high data collection costs. Recently, spherical images have been extensively used due to the capability of recording surrounding environments from one camera exposure. In contrast to perspective images with limited FOV (Field of View), spherical images can cover the whole scene with full horizontal and vertical FOV and facilitate camera tracking and data acquisition in these complex scenes. With the rapid evolution and extensive use of professional and consumer-grade spherical cameras, spherical images show great potential for the 3D modeling of urban and indoor scenes. Classical 3D reconstruction pipelines, however, cannot be directly used for spherical images. Besides, there exist few software packages that are designed for the 3D reconstruction of spherical images. As a result, this research provides a thorough survey of the state-of-the-art for 3D reconstruction of spherical images in terms of data acquisition, feature detection and matching, image orientation, and dense matching as well as presenting promising applications and discussing potential prospects. We anticipate that this study offers insightful clues to direct future research.
PredRecon: A Prediction-boosted Planning Framework for Fast and High-quality Autonomous Aerial Reconstruction
Autonomous UAV path planning for 3D reconstruction has been actively studied in various applications for high-quality 3D models. However, most existing works have adopted explore-then-exploit, prior-based or exploration-based strategies, demonstrating inefficiency with repeated flight and low autonomy. In this paper, we propose PredRecon, a prediction-boosted planning framework that can autonomously generate paths for high 3D reconstruction quality. We obtain inspiration from humans can roughly infer the complete construction structure from partial observation. Hence, we devise a surface prediction module (SPM) to predict the coarse complete surfaces of the target from the current partial reconstruction. Then, the uncovered surfaces are produced by online volumetric mapping waiting for observation by UAV. Lastly, a hierarchical planner plans motions for 3D reconstruction, which sequentially finds efficient global coverage paths, plans local paths for maximizing the performance of Multi-View Stereo (MVS), and generates smooth trajectories for image-pose pairs acquisition. We conduct benchmarks in the realistic simulator, which validates the performance of PredRecon compared with the classical and state-of-the-art methods. The open-source code is released at https://github.com/HKUST-Aerial-Robotics/PredRecon.
SSR-2D: Semantic 3D Scene Reconstruction from 2D Images
Most deep learning approaches to comprehensive semantic modeling of 3D indoor spaces require costly dense annotations in the 3D domain. In this work, we explore a central 3D scene modeling task, namely, semantic scene reconstruction without using any 3D annotations. The key idea of our approach is to design a trainable model that employs both incomplete 3D reconstructions and their corresponding source RGB-D images, fusing cross-domain features into volumetric embeddings to predict complete 3D geometry, color, and semantics with only 2D labeling which can be either manual or machine-generated. Our key technical innovation is to leverage differentiable rendering of color and semantics to bridge 2D observations and unknown 3D space, using the observed RGB images and 2D semantics as supervision, respectively. We additionally develop a learning pipeline and corresponding method to enable learning from imperfect predicted 2D labels, which could be additionally acquired by synthesizing in an augmented set of virtual training views complementing the original real captures, enabling more efficient self-supervision loop for semantics. In this work, we propose an end-to-end trainable solution jointly addressing geometry completion, colorization, and semantic mapping from limited RGB-D images, without relying on any 3D ground-truth information. Our method achieves state-of-the-art performance of semantic scene reconstruction on two large-scale benchmark datasets MatterPort3D and ScanNet, surpasses baselines even with costly 3D annotations. To our knowledge, our method is also the first 2D-driven method addressing completion and semantic segmentation of real-world 3D scans.
Mono-STAR: Mono-camera Scene-level Tracking and Reconstruction
We present Mono-STAR, the first real-time 3D reconstruction system that simultaneously supports semantic fusion, fast motion tracking, non-rigid object deformation, and topological change under a unified framework. The proposed system solves a new optimization problem incorporating optical-flow-based 2D constraints to deal with fast motion and a novel semantic-aware deformation graph (SAD-graph) for handling topology change. We test the proposed system under various challenging scenes and demonstrate that it significantly outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods.
3D genome reconstruction from partially phased Hi-C data
The 3-dimensional (3D) structure of the genome is of significant importance for many cellular processes. In this paper, we study the problem of reconstructing the 3D structure of chromosomes from Hi-C data of diploid organisms, which poses additional challenges compared to the better-studied haploid setting. With the help of techniques from algebraic geometry, we prove that a small amount of phased data is sufficient to ensure finite identifiability, both for noiseless and noisy data. In the light of these results, we propose a new 3D reconstruction method based on semidefinite programming, paired with numerical algebraic geometry and local optimization. The performance of this method is tested on several simulated datasets under different noise levels and with different amounts of phased data. We also apply it to a real dataset from mouse X chromosomes, and we are then able to recover previously known structural features.
A Comparison of Tiny-nerf versus Spatial Representations for 3d Reconstruction
Neural rendering has emerged as a powerful paradigm for synthesizing images, offering many benefits over classical rendering by using neural networks to reconstruct surfaces, represent shapes, and synthesize novel views, either for objects or scenes. In this neural rendering, the environment is encoded into a neural network. We believe that these new representations can be used to codify the scene for a mobile robot. Therefore, in this work, we perform a comparison between a trending neural rendering, called tiny-NeRF, and other volume representations that are commonly used as maps in robotics, such as voxel maps, point clouds, and triangular meshes. The target is to know the advantages and disadvantages of neural representations in the robotics context. The comparison is made in terms of spatial complexity and processing time to obtain a model. Experiments show that tiny-NeRF requires three times less memory space compared to other representations. In terms of processing time, tiny-NeRF takes about six times more to compute the model.
Local Feature Extraction from Salient Regions by Feature Map Transformation
Local feature matching is essential for many applications, such as localization and 3D reconstruction. However, it is challenging to match feature points accurately in various camera viewpoints and illumination conditions. In this paper, we propose a framework that robustly extracts and describes salient local features regardless of changing light and viewpoints. The framework suppresses illumination variations and encourages structural information to ignore the noise from light and to focus on edges. We classify the elements in the feature covariance matrix, an implicit feature map information, into two components. Our model extracts feature points from salient regions leading to reduced incorrect matches. In our experiments, the proposed method achieved higher accuracy than the state-of-the-art methods in the public dataset, such as HPatches, Aachen Day-Night, and ETH, which especially show highly variant viewpoints and illumination.
Two-stage 2D-to-3D reconstruction of realistic microstructures: Implementation and numerical validation by effective properties
Realistic microscale domains are an essential step towards making modern multiscale simulations more applicable to computational materials engineering. For this purpose, 3D computed tomography scans can be very expensive or technically impossible for certain materials, whereas 2D information can be easier obtained. Based on a single or three orthogonal 2D slices, the recently proposed differentiable microstructure characterization and reconstruction (DMCR) algorithm is able to reconstruct multiple plausible 3D realizations of the microstructure based on statistical descriptors, i.e., without the need for a training data set. Building upon DMCR, this work introduces a highly accurate two-stage reconstruction algorithm that refines the DMCR results under consideration of microstructure descriptors. Furthermore, the 2D-to-3D reconstruction is validated using a real computed tomography (CT) scan of a recently developed beta-Ti/TiFe alloy as well as anisotropic "bone-like" spinodoid structures. After a detailed discussion of systematic errors in the descriptor space, the reconstructed microstructures are compared to the reference in terms of the numerically obtained effective elastic and plastic properties. Together with the free accessibility of the presented algorithms in MCRpy, the excellent results in this study motivate interdisciplinary cooperation in applying numerical multiscale simulations for computational materials engineering.
3D Reconstruction of Non-cooperative Resident Space Objects using Instant NGP-accelerated NeRF and D-NeRF
The proliferation of non-cooperative resident space objects (RSOs) in orbit has spurred the demand for active space debris removal, on-orbit servicing (OOS), classification, and functionality identification of these RSOs. Recent advances in computer vision have enabled high-definition 3D modeling of objects based on a set of 2D images captured from different viewing angles. This work adapts Instant NeRF and D-NeRF, variations of the neural radiance field (NeRF) algorithm to the problem of mapping RSOs in orbit for the purposes of functionality identification and assisting with OOS. The algorithms are evaluated for 3D reconstruction quality and hardware requirements using datasets of images of a spacecraft mock-up taken under two different lighting and motion conditions at the Orbital Robotic Interaction, On-Orbit Servicing and Navigation (ORION) Laboratory at Florida Institute of Technology. Instant NeRF is shown to learn high-fidelity 3D models with a computational cost that could feasibly be trained on on-board computers.
Second-Order Coverage Control for Multi-Agent UAV Photogrammetry
Unmanned Aerial Vehicles equipped with cameras can be used to automate image capture for generating 3D models via photogrammetry. Current methods rely on a single vehicle to capture images sequentially, or use pre-planned and heuristic imaging configurations. We seek to provide a multi-agent control approach to capturing the images required to 3D map a region. A photogrammetry cost function is formulated that captures the importance of sharing feature-dense areas across multiple images for successful photogrammetry reconstruction. A distributed second-order coverage controller is used to minimise this cost and move agents to an imaging configuration. This approach prioritises high quality images that are simultaneously captured, leading to efficient and scalable 3D mapping of a region. We demonstrate our approach with a hardware experiment, generating and comparing 3D reconstructions from image sets captured using our approach to those captured using traditional methods.
Computationally Efficient 3D MRI Reconstruction with Adaptive MLP
Compared with 2D MRI, 3D MRI provides superior volumetric spatial resolution and signal-to-noise ratio. However, it is more challenging to reconstruct 3D MRI images. Current methods are mainly based on convolutional neural networks (CNN) with small kernels, which are difficult to scale up to have sufficient fitting power for 3D MRI reconstruction due to the large image size and GPU memory constraint. Furthermore, MRI reconstruction is a deconvolution problem, which demands long-distance information that is difficult to capture by CNNs with small convolution kernels. The multi-layer perceptron (MLP) can model such long-distance information, but it requires a fixed input size. In this paper, we proposed Recon3DMLP, a hybrid of CNN modules with small kernels for low-frequency reconstruction and adaptive MLP (dMLP) modules with large kernels to boost the high-frequency reconstruction, for 3D MRI reconstruction. We further utilized the circular shift operation based on MRI physics such that dMLP accepts arbitrary image size and can extract global information from the entire FOV. We also propose a GPU memory efficient data fidelity module that can reduce $>$50$\%$ memory. We compared Recon3DMLP with other CNN-based models on a high-resolution (HR) 3D MRI dataset. Recon3DMLP improves HR 3D reconstruction and outperforms several existing CNN-based models under similar GPU memory consumption, which demonstrates that Recon3DMLP is a practical solution for HR 3D MRI reconstruction.
Parallelized computational 3D video microscopy of freely moving organisms at multiple gigapixels per second
To study the behavior of freely moving model organisms such as zebrafish (Danio rerio) and fruit flies (Drosophila) across multiple spatial scales, it would be ideal to use a light microscope that can resolve 3D information over a wide field of view (FOV) at high speed and high spatial resolution. However, it is challenging to design an optical instrument to achieve all of these properties simultaneously. Existing techniques for large-FOV microscopic imaging and for 3D image measurement typically require many sequential image snapshots, thus compromising speed and throughput. Here, we present 3D-RAPID, a computational microscope based on a synchronized array of 54 cameras that can capture high-speed 3D topographic videos over a 135-cm^2 area, achieving up to 230 frames per second at throughputs exceeding 5 gigapixels (GPs) per second. 3D-RAPID features a 3D reconstruction algorithm that, for each synchronized temporal snapshot, simultaneously fuses all 54 images seamlessly into a globally-consistent composite that includes a coregistered 3D height map. The self-supervised 3D reconstruction algorithm itself trains a spatiotemporally-compressed convolutional neural network (CNN) that maps raw photometric images to 3D topography, using stereo overlap redundancy and ray-propagation physics as the only supervision mechanism. As a result, our end-to-end 3D reconstruction algorithm is robust to generalization errors and scales to arbitrarily long videos from arbitrarily sized camera arrays. The scalable hardware and software design of 3D-RAPID addresses a longstanding problem in the field of behavioral imaging, enabling parallelized 3D observation of large collections of freely moving organisms at high spatiotemporal throughputs, which we demonstrate in ants (Pogonomyrmex barbatus), fruit flies, and zebrafish larvae.
Multiview Compressive Coding for 3D Reconstruction
A central goal of visual recognition is to understand objects and scenes from a single image. 2D recognition has witnessed tremendous progress thanks to large-scale learning and general-purpose representations. Comparatively, 3D poses new challenges stemming from occlusions not depicted in the image. Prior works try to overcome these by inferring from multiple views or rely on scarce CAD models and category-specific priors which hinder scaling to novel settings. In this work, we explore single-view 3D reconstruction by learning generalizable representations inspired by advances in self-supervised learning. We introduce a simple framework that operates on 3D points of single objects or whole scenes coupled with category-agnostic large-scale training from diverse RGB-D videos. Our model, Multiview Compressive Coding (MCC), learns to compress the input appearance and geometry to predict the 3D structure by querying a 3D-aware decoder. MCC's generality and efficiency allow it to learn from large-scale and diverse data sources with strong generalization to novel objects imagined by DALL$\cdot$E 2 or captured in-the-wild with an iPhone.
Regularising disparity estimation via multi task learning with structured light reconstruction
3D reconstruction is a useful tool for surgical planning and guidance. However, the lack of available medical data stunts research and development in this field, as supervised deep learning methods for accurate disparity estimation rely heavily on large datasets containing ground truth information. Alternative approaches to supervision have been explored, such as self-supervision, which can reduce or remove entirely the need for ground truth. However, no proposed alternatives have demonstrated performance capabilities close to what would be expected from a supervised setup. This work aims to alleviate this issue. In this paper, we investigate the learning of structured light projections to enhance the development of direct disparity estimation networks. We show for the first time that it is possible to accurately learn the projection of structured light on a scene, implicitly learning disparity. Secondly, we \textcolor{black}{explore the use of a multi task learning (MTL) framework for the joint training of structured light and disparity. We present results which show that MTL with structured light improves disparity training; without increasing the number of model parameters. Our MTL setup outperformed the single task learning (STL) network in every validation test. Notably, in the medical generalisation test, the STL error was 1.4 times worse than that of the best MTL performance. The benefit of using MTL is emphasised when the training data is limited.} A dataset containing stereoscopic images, disparity maps and structured light projections on medical phantoms and ex vivo tissue was created for evaluation together with virtual scenes. This dataset will be made publicly available in the future.
Stereoscopic Observation of Simultaneous Longitudinal and Transverse Oscillations in a Single Filament Driven by Two-sided-loop Jet
We report the first observations of simultaneous large-amplitude longitudinal and transverse oscillations of a quiescent filament trigged by a two-sided-loop jet formed by the magnetic reconnection between the filament and an emerging loop in the filament channel, recorded by the Solar Dynamics Observatory and the Solar TErrestrial RElations Observatory. The north arm of the jet firstly pushed the filament mass moving northwardly along the magnetic field lines consisting of the coronal cavity, then some elevated filament mass fell back and started to oscillate longitudinally at the bottom of the cavity (i.e., the magnetic dip). The northernmost part of the filament also showed transverse oscillation simultaneously. The amplitude and period of the longitudinal (transverse) oscillation are 12.96 (2.99) Mm and 1.18 (0.33) hours, respectively. By using the method of filament seismology, the radius of curvature of the magnetic dip is about 151 Mm, consistent with that obtained by the 3D reconstruction (166 Mm). Using different physical parameters of the observed longitudinal and transverse oscillations, the magnetic field strength of the filament is estimated to be about 23 and 21 Gauss, respectively. By calculating the energy of the moving filament mass, the minimum energy of the jet is estimated to be about 1.96 x 10^28 erg. We conclude that the newly formed jet can not only trigger simultaneous longitudinal and transverse oscillations in a single filament, but also can be used as a seismology tool for diagnosing filament information, such as the magnetic structure, magnetic field strength, and magnetic twists.
Edge Preserving Implicit Surface Representation of Point Clouds
Learning implicit surface directly from raw data recently has become a very attractive representation method for 3D reconstruction tasks due to its excellent performance. However, as the raw data quality deteriorates, the implicit functions often lead to unsatisfactory reconstruction results. To this end, we propose a novel edge-preserving implicit surface reconstruction method, which mainly consists of a differentiable Laplican regularizer and a dynamic edge sampling strategy. Among them, the differential Laplican regularizer can effectively alleviate the implicit surface unsmoothness caused by the point cloud quality deteriorates; Meanwhile, in order to reduce the excessive smoothing at the edge regions of implicit suface, we proposed a dynamic edge extract strategy for sampling near the sharp edge of point cloud, which can effectively avoid the Laplacian regularizer from smoothing all regions. Finally, we combine them with a simple regularization term for robust implicit surface reconstruction. Compared with the state-of-the-art methods, experimental results show that our method significantly improves the quality of 3D reconstruction results. Moreover, we demonstrate through several experiments that our method can be conveniently and effectively applied to some point cloud analysis tasks, including point cloud edge feature extraction, normal estimation,etc.
Elevation Estimation-Driven Building 3D Reconstruction from Single-View Remote Sensing Imagery
Building 3D reconstruction from remote sensing images has a wide range of applications in smart cities, photogrammetry and other fields. Methods for automatic 3D urban building modeling typically employ multi-view images as input to algorithms to recover point clouds and 3D models of buildings. However, such models rely heavily on multi-view images of buildings, which are time-intensive and limit the applicability and practicality of the models. To solve these issues, we focus on designing an efficient DSM estimation-driven reconstruction framework (Building3D), which aims to reconstruct 3D building models from the input single-view remote sensing image. First, we propose a Semantic Flow Field-guided DSM Estimation (SFFDE) network, which utilizes the proposed concept of elevation semantic flow to achieve the registration of local and global features. Specifically, in order to make the network semantics globally aware, we propose an Elevation Semantic Globalization (ESG) module to realize the semantic globalization of instances. Further, in order to alleviate the semantic span of global features and original local features, we propose a Local-to-Global Elevation Semantic Registration (L2G-ESR) module based on elevation semantic flow. Our Building3D is rooted in the SFFDE network for building elevation prediction, synchronized with a building extraction network for building masks, and then sequentially performs point cloud reconstruction, surface reconstruction (or CityGML model reconstruction). On this basis, our Building3D can optionally generate CityGML models or surface mesh models of the buildings. Extensive experiments on ISPRS Vaihingen and DFC2019 datasets on the DSM estimation task show that our SFFDE significantly improves upon state-of-the-arts. Furthermore, our Building3D achieves impressive results in the 3D point cloud and 3D model reconstruction process.
First 3D reconstruction of a blast furnace using muography
The blast furnace (BF) is the fundamental tool used in the iron manufacture. Due to the difficulty of accessing direct measurements of the inner phenomena, we determined the density distribution of its internal volume in order to improve its productivity using muography. This is an imaging technique based on the differential absorption of a flux of incident particles, muons, by the target under study, similar to clinical X-ray imaging. Muons are elementary particles that have the property of passing through dense materials, up to hundreds of meters away. Their relative absorption and deviation allows the generation of density distribution images of an object by tracking the number of muons received by a detector, before and after passing through a structure. The incident direction of the detected muons is reconstructed by means of a detector composed of 3 scintillator panels that we moved on 3 positions around the BF. With this technique, we obtained the first 3D image of the internal structure of a BF using a Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) inverse problem solving algorithm on muon flux data. We were also able to perform a density monitoring of the BF and some of its operating parameters. We distinguished the position and shape of the cohesive zone, a key element in the productivity of a furnace, validating this innovative measurement concept in the application to a BF and opening the field to a series of future experiments to gain both spatial and temporal resolution.
Automatic Diagnosis of Carotid Atherosclerosis Using a Portable Freehand 3D Ultrasound Imaging System
Objective: The objective of this study is to develop a deep-learning based detection and diagnosis technique for carotid atherosclerosis using a portable freehand 3D ultrasound (US) imaging system. Methods: A total of 127 3D carotid artery datasets were acquired using a portable 3D US imaging system. A U-Net segmentation network was firstly applied to extract the carotid artery on 2D transverse frame, then a novel 3D reconstruction algorithm using fast dot projection (FDP) method with position regularization was proposed to reconstruct the carotid artery volume. Furthermore, a convolutional neural network was used to classify the healthy case and diseased case qualitatively. 3D volume analysis including longitudinal reprojection algorithm and stenosis grade measurement algorithm was developed to obtain the clinical metrics quantitatively. Results: The proposed system achieved sensitivity of 0.714, specificity of 0.851 and accuracy of 0.803 respectively in diagnosis of carotid atherosclerosis. The automatically measured stenosis grade illustrated good correlation (r=0.762) with the experienced expert measurement. Conclusion: the developed technique based on 3D US imaging can be applied to the automatic diagnosis of carotid atherosclerosis. Significance: The proposed deep-learning based technique was specially designed for a portable 3D freehand US system, which can provide carotid atherosclerosis examination more conveniently and decrease the dependence on clinician's experience.
Towards a Pipeline for Real-Time Visualization of Faces for VR-based Telepresence and Live Broadcasting Utilizing Neural Rendering
While head-mounted displays (HMDs) for Virtual Reality (VR) have become widely available in the consumer market, they pose a considerable obstacle for a realistic face-to-face conversation in VR since HMDs hide a significant portion of the participants faces. Even with image streams from cameras directly attached to an HMD, stitching together a convincing image of an entire face remains a challenging task because of extreme capture angles and strong lens distortions due to a wide field of view. Compared to the long line of research in VR, reconstruction of faces hidden beneath an HMD is a very recent topic of research. While the current state-of-the-art solutions demonstrate photo-realistic 3D reconstruction results, they require high-cost laboratory equipment and large computational costs. We present an approach that focuses on low-cost hardware and can be used on a commodity gaming computer with a single GPU. We leverage the benefits of an end-to-end pipeline by means of Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN). Our GAN produces a frontal-facing 2.5D point cloud based on a training dataset captured with an RGBD camera. In our approach, the training process is offline, while the reconstruction runs in real-time. Our results show adequate reconstruction quality within the 'learned' expressions. Expressions not learned by the network produce artifacts and can trigger the Uncanny Valley effect.
BS3D: Building-scale 3D Reconstruction from RGB-D Images
Various datasets have been proposed for simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) and related problems. Existing datasets often include small environments, have incomplete ground truth, or lack important sensor data, such as depth and infrared images. We propose an easy-to-use framework for acquiring building-scale 3D reconstruction using a consumer depth camera. Unlike complex and expensive acquisition setups, our system enables crowd-sourcing, which can greatly benefit data-hungry algorithms. Compared to similar systems, we utilize raw depth maps for odometry computation and loop closure refinement which results in better reconstructions. We acquire a building-scale 3D dataset (BS3D) and demonstrate its value by training an improved monocular depth estimation model. As a unique experiment, we benchmark visual-inertial odometry methods using both color and active infrared images.
Deep Learning from Parametrically Generated Virtual Buildings for Real-World Object Recognition
We study the use of parametric building information modeling (BIM) to automatically generate training data for artificial neural networks (ANNs) to recognize building objects in photos. Teaching artificial intelligence (AI) machines to detect building objects in images is the foundation toward AI-assisted semantic 3D reconstruction of existing buildings. However, there exists the challenge of acquiring training data which is typically human-annotated, that is, unless a computer machine can generate high-quality data to train itself for a certain task. In that vein, we trained ANNs solely on realistic computer-generated images of 3D BIM models which were parametrically and automatically generated using the BIMGenE program. The ANN training result demonstrated generalizability and good semantic segmentation on a test case as well as arbitrary photos of buildings that are outside the range of the training data, which is significant for the future of training AI with generated data for solving real-world architectural problems.
Ponder: Point Cloud Pre-training via Neural Rendering
We propose a novel approach to self-supervised learning of point cloud representations by differentiable neural rendering. Motivated by the fact that informative point cloud features should be able to encode rich geometry and appearance cues and render realistic images, we train a point-cloud encoder within a devised point-based neural renderer by comparing the rendered images with real images on massive RGB-D data. The learned point-cloud encoder can be easily integrated into various downstream tasks, including not only high-level tasks like 3D detection and segmentation, but low-level tasks like 3D reconstruction and image synthesis. Extensive experiments on various tasks demonstrate the superiority of our approach compared to existing pre-training methods.
Equivariant Light Field Convolution and Transformer
3D reconstruction and novel view rendering can greatly benefit from geometric priors when the input views are not sufficient in terms of coverage and inter-view baselines. Deep learning of geometric priors from 2D images often requires each image to be represented in a $2D$ canonical frame and the prior to be learned in a given or learned $3D$ canonical frame. In this paper, given only the relative poses of the cameras, we show how to learn priors from multiple views equivariant to coordinate frame transformations by proposing an $SE(3)$-equivariant convolution and transformer in the space of rays in 3D. This enables the creation of a light field that remains equivariant to the choice of coordinate frame. The light field as defined in our work, refers both to the radiance field and the feature field defined on the ray space. We model the ray space, the domain of the light field, as a homogeneous space of $SE(3)$ and introduce the $SE(3)$-equivariant convolution in ray space. Depending on the output domain of the convolution, we present convolution-based $SE(3)$-equivariant maps from ray space to ray space and to $\mathbb{R}^3$. Our mathematical framework allows us to go beyond convolution to $SE(3)$-equivariant attention in the ray space. We demonstrate how to tailor and adapt the equivariant convolution and transformer in the tasks of equivariant neural rendering and $3D$ reconstruction from multiple views. We demonstrate $SE(3)$-equivariance by obtaining robust results in roto-translated datasets without performing transformation augmentation.
NeMo: 3D Neural Motion Fields from Multiple Video Instances of the Same Action
The task of reconstructing 3D human motion has wideranging applications. The gold standard Motion capture (MoCap) systems are accurate but inaccessible to the general public due to their cost, hardware and space constraints. In contrast, monocular human mesh recovery (HMR) methods are much more accessible than MoCap as they take single-view videos as inputs. Replacing the multi-view Mo- Cap systems with a monocular HMR method would break the current barriers to collecting accurate 3D motion thus making exciting applications like motion analysis and motiondriven animation accessible to the general public. However, performance of existing HMR methods degrade when the video contains challenging and dynamic motion that is not in existing MoCap datasets used for training. This reduces its appeal as dynamic motion is frequently the target in 3D motion recovery in the aforementioned applications. Our study aims to bridge the gap between monocular HMR and multi-view MoCap systems by leveraging information shared across multiple video instances of the same action. We introduce the Neural Motion (NeMo) field. It is optimized to represent the underlying 3D motions across a set of videos of the same action. Empirically, we show that NeMo can recover 3D motion in sports using videos from the Penn Action dataset, where NeMo outperforms existing HMR methods in terms of 2D keypoint detection. To further validate NeMo using 3D metrics, we collected a small MoCap dataset mimicking actions in Penn Action,and show that NeMo achieves better 3D reconstruction compared to various baselines.
Polarimetric Multi-View Inverse Rendering
A polarization camera has great potential for 3D reconstruction since the angle of polarization (AoP) and the degree of polarization (DoP) of reflected light are related to an object's surface normal. In this paper, we propose a novel 3D reconstruction method called Polarimetric Multi-View Inverse Rendering (Polarimetric MVIR) that effectively exploits geometric, photometric, and polarimetric cues extracted from input multi-view color-polarization images. We first estimate camera poses and an initial 3D model by geometric reconstruction with a standard structure-from-motion and multi-view stereo pipeline. We then refine the initial model by optimizing photometric rendering errors and polarimetric errors using multi-view RGB, AoP, and DoP images, where we propose a novel polarimetric cost function that enables an effective constraint on the estimated surface normal of each vertex, while considering four possible ambiguous azimuth angles revealed from the AoP measurement. The weight for the polarimetric cost is effectively determined based on the DoP measurement, which is regarded as the reliability of polarimetric information. Experimental results using both synthetic and real data demonstrate that our Polarimetric MVIR can reconstruct a detailed 3D shape without assuming a specific surface material and lighting condition.
Coded Illumination for 3D Lensless Imaging
Mask-based lensless cameras offer a novel design for imaging systems by replacing the lens in a conventional camera with a layer of coded mask. Each pixel of the lensless camera encodes the information of the entire 3D scene. Existing methods for 3D reconstruction from lensless measurements suffer from poor spatial and depth resolution. This is partially due to the system ill conditioning that arises because the point-spread functions (PSFs) from different depth planes are very similar. In this paper, we propose to capture multiple measurements of the scene under a sequence of coded illumination patterns to improve the 3D image reconstruction quality. In addition, we put the illumination source at a distance away from the camera. With such baseline distance between the lensless camera and illumination source, the camera observes a slice of the 3D volume, and the PSF of each depth plane becomes more resolvable from each other. We present simulation results along with experimental results with a camera prototype to demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach.
Lightweight Monocular Depth Estimation
Monocular depth estimation can play an important role in addressing the issue of deriving scene geometry from 2D images. It has been used in a variety of industries, including robots, self-driving cars, scene comprehension, 3D reconstructions, and others. The goal of our method is to create a lightweight machine-learning model in order to predict the depth value of each pixel given only a single RGB image as input with the Unet structure of the image segmentation network. We use the NYU Depth V2 dataset to test the structure and compare the result with other methods. The proposed method achieves relatively high accuracy and low rootmean-square error.
Hi-LASSIE: High-Fidelity Articulated Shape and Skeleton Discovery from Sparse Image Ensemble
Automatically estimating 3D skeleton, shape, camera viewpoints, and part articulation from sparse in-the-wild image ensembles is a severely under-constrained and challenging problem. Most prior methods rely on large-scale image datasets, dense temporal correspondence, or human annotations like camera pose, 2D keypoints, and shape templates. We propose Hi-LASSIE, which performs 3D articulated reconstruction from only 20-30 online images in the wild without any user-defined shape or skeleton templates. We follow the recent work of LASSIE that tackles a similar problem setting and make two significant advances. First, instead of relying on a manually annotated 3D skeleton, we automatically estimate a class-specific skeleton from the selected reference image. Second, we improve the shape reconstructions with novel instance-specific optimization strategies that allow reconstructions to faithful fit on each instance while preserving the class-specific priors learned across all images. Experiments on in-the-wild image ensembles show that Hi-LASSIE obtains higher fidelity state-of-the-art 3D reconstructions despite requiring minimum user input.
Incremental Neural Implicit Representation with Uncertainty-Filtered Knowledge Distillation
Recent neural implicit representations (NIRs) have achieved great success in the tasks of 3D reconstruction and novel view synthesis. However, they suffer from the catastrophic forgetting problem when continuously learning from streaming data without revisiting the previously seen data. This limitation prohibits the application of existing NIRs to scenarios where images come in sequentially. In view of this, we explore the task of incremental learning for NIRs in this work. We design a student-teacher framework to mitigate the catastrophic forgetting problem. Specifically, we iterate the process of using the student as the teacher at the end of each time step and let the teacher guide the training of the student in the next step. As a result, the student network is able to learn new information from the streaming data and retain old knowledge from the teacher network simultaneously. Although intuitive, naively applying the student-teacher pipeline does not work well in our task. Not all information from the teacher network is helpful since it is only trained with the old data. To alleviate this problem, we further introduce a random inquirer and an uncertainty-based filter to filter useful information. Our proposed method is general and thus can be adapted to different implicit representations such as neural radiance field (NeRF) and neural SDF. Extensive experimental results for both 3D reconstruction and novel view synthesis demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach compared to different baselines.
PaletteNeRF: Palette-based Appearance Editing of Neural Radiance Fields
Recent advances in neural radiance fields have enabled the high-fidelity 3D reconstruction of complex scenes for novel view synthesis. However, it remains underexplored how the appearance of such representations can be efficiently edited while maintaining photorealism.   In this work, we present PaletteNeRF, a novel method for photorealistic appearance editing of neural radiance fields (NeRF) based on 3D color decomposition. Our method decomposes the appearance of each 3D point into a linear combination of palette-based bases (i.e., 3D segmentations defined by a group of NeRF-type functions) that are shared across the scene. While our palette-based bases are view-independent, we also predict a view-dependent function to capture the color residual (e.g., specular shading). During training, we jointly optimize the basis functions and the color palettes, and we also introduce novel regularizers to encourage the spatial coherence of the decomposition.   Our method allows users to efficiently edit the appearance of the 3D scene by modifying the color palettes. We also extend our framework with compressed semantic features for semantic-aware appearance editing. We demonstrate that our technique is superior to baseline methods both quantitatively and qualitatively for appearance editing of complex real-world scenes.
High-resolution canopy height map in the Landes forest (France) based on GEDI, Sentinel-1, and Sentinel-2 data with a deep learning approach
In intensively managed forests in Europe, where forests are divided into stands of small size and may show heterogeneity within stands, a high spatial resolution (10 - 20 meters) is arguably needed to capture the differences in canopy height. In this work, we developed a deep learning model based on multi-stream remote sensing measurements to create a high-resolution canopy height map over the "Landes de Gascogne" forest in France, a large maritime pine plantation of 13,000 km$^2$ with flat terrain and intensive management. This area is characterized by even-aged and mono-specific stands, of a typical length of a few hundred meters, harvested every 35 to 50 years. Our deep learning U-Net model uses multi-band images from Sentinel-1 and Sentinel-2 with composite time averages as input to predict tree height derived from GEDI waveforms. The evaluation is performed with external validation data from forest inventory plots and a stereo 3D reconstruction model based on Skysat imagery available at specific locations. We trained seven different U-net models based on a combination of Sentinel-1 and Sentinel-2 bands to evaluate the importance of each instrument in the dominant height retrieval. The model outputs allow us to generate a 10 m resolution canopy height map of the whole "Landes de Gascogne" forest area for 2020 with a mean absolute error of 2.02 m on the Test dataset. The best predictions were obtained using all available satellite layers from Sentinel-1 and Sentinel-2 but using only one satellite source also provided good predictions. For all validation datasets in coniferous forests, our model showed better metrics than previous canopy height models available in the same region.
Seafloor-Invariant Caustics Removal from Underwater Imagery
Mapping the seafloor with underwater imaging cameras is of significant importance for various applications including marine engineering, geology, geomorphology, archaeology and biology. For shallow waters, among the underwater imaging challenges, caustics i.e., the complex physical phenomena resulting from the projection of light rays being refracted by the wavy surface, is likely the most crucial one. Caustics is the main factor during underwater imaging campaigns that massively degrade image quality and affect severely any 2D mosaicking or 3D reconstruction of the seabed. In this work, we propose a novel method for correcting the radiometric effects of caustics on shallow underwater imagery. Contrary to the state-of-the-art, the developed method can handle seabed and riverbed of any anaglyph, correcting the images using real pixel information, thus, improving image matching and 3D reconstruction processes. In particular, the developed method employs deep learning architectures in order to classify image pixels to "non-caustics" and "caustics". Then, exploits the 3D geometry of the scene to achieve a pixel-wise correction, by transferring appropriate color values between the overlapping underwater images. Moreover, to fill the current gap, we have collected, annotated and structured a real-world caustic dataset, namely R-CAUSTIC, which is openly available. Overall, based on the experimental results and validation the developed methodology is quite promising in both detecting caustics and reconstructing their intensity.
Shared Coupling-bridge for Weakly Supervised Local Feature Learning
Sparse local feature extraction is usually believed to be of important significance in typical vision tasks such as simultaneous localization and mapping, image matching and 3D reconstruction. At present, it still has some deficiencies needing further improvement, mainly including the discrimination power of extracted local descriptors, the localization accuracy of detected keypoints, and the efficiency of local feature learning. This paper focuses on promoting the currently popular sparse local feature learning with camera pose supervision. Therefore, it pertinently proposes a Shared Coupling-bridge scheme with four light-weight yet effective improvements for weakly-supervised local feature (SCFeat) learning. It mainly contains: i) the \emph{Feature-Fusion-ResUNet Backbone} (F2R-Backbone) for local descriptors learning, ii) a shared coupling-bridge normalization to improve the decoupling training of description network and detection network, iii) an improved detection network with peakiness measurement to detect keypoints and iv) the fundamental matrix error as a reward factor to further optimize feature detection training. Extensive experiments prove that our SCFeat improvement is effective. It could often obtain a state-of-the-art performance on classic image matching and visual localization. In terms of 3D reconstruction, it could still achieve competitive results. For sharing and communication, our source codes are available at https://github.com/sunjiayuanro/SCFeat.git.
Localizing Objects in 3D from Egocentric Videos with Visual Queries
With the recent advances in video and 3D understanding, novel 4D spatio-temporal challenges fusing both concepts have emerged. Towards this direction, the Ego4D Episodic Memory Benchmark proposed a task for Visual Queries with 3D Localization (VQ3D). Given an egocentric video clip and an image crop depicting a query object, the goal is to localize the 3D position of the center of that query object with respect to the camera pose of a query frame. Current methods tackle the problem of VQ3D by lifting the 2D localization results of the sister task Visual Queries with 2D Localization (VQ2D) into a 3D reconstruction. Yet, we point out that the low number of Queries with Poses (QwP) from previous VQ3D methods severally hinders their overall success rate and highlights the need for further effort in 3D modeling to tackle the VQ3D task. In this work, we formalize a pipeline that better entangles 3D multiview geometry with 2D object retrieval from egocentric videos. We estimate more robust camera poses, leading to more successful object queries and substantially improved VQ3D performance. In practice, our method reaches a top-1 overall success rate of 86.36% on the Ego4D Episodic Memory Benchmark VQ3D, a 10x improvement over the previous state-of-the-art. In addition, we provide a complete empirical study highlighting the remaining challenges in VQ3D.
Structured 3D Features for Reconstructing Controllable Avatars
We introduce Structured 3D Features, a model based on a novel implicit 3D representation that pools pixel-aligned image features onto dense 3D points sampled from a parametric, statistical human mesh surface. The 3D points have associated semantics and can move freely in 3D space. This allows for optimal coverage of the person of interest, beyond just the body shape, which in turn, additionally helps modeling accessories, hair, and loose clothing. Owing to this, we present a complete 3D transformer-based attention framework which, given a single image of a person in an unconstrained pose, generates an animatable 3D reconstruction with albedo and illumination decomposition, as a result of a single end-to-end model, trained semi-supervised, and with no additional postprocessing. We show that our S3F model surpasses the previous state-of-the-art on various tasks, including monocular 3D reconstruction, as well as albedo and shading estimation. Moreover, we show that the proposed methodology allows novel view synthesis, relighting, and re-posing the reconstruction, and can naturally be extended to handle multiple input images (e.g. different views of a person, or the same view, in different poses, in video). Finally, we demonstrate the editing capabilities of our model for 3D virtual try-on applications.
SST: Real-time End-to-end Monocular 3D Reconstruction via Sparse Spatial-Temporal Guidance
Real-time monocular 3D reconstruction is a challenging problem that remains unsolved. Although recent end-to-end methods have demonstrated promising results, tiny structures and geometric boundaries are hardly captured due to their insufficient supervision neglecting spatial details and oversimplified feature fusion ignoring temporal cues. To address the problems, we propose an end-to-end 3D reconstruction network SST, which utilizes Sparse estimated points from visual SLAM system as additional Spatial guidance and fuses Temporal features via a novel cross-modal attention mechanism, achieving more detailed reconstruction results. We propose a Local Spatial-Temporal Fusion module to exploit more informative spatial-temporal cues from multi-view color information and sparse priors, as well a Global Spatial-Temporal Fusion module to refine the local TSDF volumes with the world-frame model from coarse to fine. Extensive experiments on ScanNet and 7-Scenes demonstrate that SST outperforms all state-of-the-art competitors, whilst keeping a high inference speed at 59 FPS, enabling real-world applications with real-time requirements.
SDFusion: Multimodal 3D Shape Completion, Reconstruction, and Generation
In this work, we present a novel framework built to simplify 3D asset generation for amateur users. To enable interactive generation, our method supports a variety of input modalities that can be easily provided by a human, including images, text, partially observed shapes and combinations of these, further allowing to adjust the strength of each input. At the core of our approach is an encoder-decoder, compressing 3D shapes into a compact latent representation, upon which a diffusion model is learned. To enable a variety of multi-modal inputs, we employ task-specific encoders with dropout followed by a cross-attention mechanism. Due to its flexibility, our model naturally supports a variety of tasks, outperforming prior works on shape completion, image-based 3D reconstruction, and text-to-3D. Most interestingly, our model can combine all these tasks into one swiss-army-knife tool, enabling the user to perform shape generation using incomplete shapes, images, and textual descriptions at the same time, providing the relative weights for each input and facilitating interactivity. Despite our approach being shape-only, we further show an efficient method to texture the generated shape using large-scale text-to-image models.
Multi-View Mesh Reconstruction with Neural Deferred Shading
We propose an analysis-by-synthesis method for fast multi-view 3D reconstruction of opaque objects with arbitrary materials and illumination. State-of-the-art methods use both neural surface representations and neural rendering. While flexible, neural surface representations are a significant bottleneck in optimization runtime. Instead, we represent surfaces as triangle meshes and build a differentiable rendering pipeline around triangle rasterization and neural shading. The renderer is used in a gradient descent optimization where both a triangle mesh and a neural shader are jointly optimized to reproduce the multi-view images. We evaluate our method on a public 3D reconstruction dataset and show that it can match the reconstruction accuracy of traditional baselines and neural approaches while surpassing them in optimization runtime. Additionally, we investigate the shader and find that it learns an interpretable representation of appearance, enabling applications such as 3D material editing.
ALTO: Alternating Latent Topologies for Implicit 3D Reconstruction
This work introduces alternating latent topologies (ALTO) for high-fidelity reconstruction of implicit 3D surfaces from noisy point clouds. Previous work identifies that the spatial arrangement of latent encodings is important to recover detail. One school of thought is to encode a latent vector for each point (point latents). Another school of thought is to project point latents into a grid (grid latents) which could be a voxel grid or triplane grid. Each school of thought has tradeoffs. Grid latents are coarse and lose high-frequency detail. In contrast, point latents preserve detail. However, point latents are more difficult to decode into a surface, and quality and runtime suffer. In this paper, we propose ALTO to sequentially alternate between geometric representations, before converging to an easy-to-decode latent. We find that this preserves spatial expressiveness and makes decoding lightweight. We validate ALTO on implicit 3D recovery and observe not only a performance improvement over the state-of-the-art, but a runtime improvement of 3-10$\times$. Project website at https://visual.ee.ucla.edu/alto.htm/.
NeRDi: Single-View NeRF Synthesis with Language-Guided Diffusion as General Image Priors
2D-to-3D reconstruction is an ill-posed problem, yet humans are good at solving this problem due to their prior knowledge of the 3D world developed over years. Driven by this observation, we propose NeRDi, a single-view NeRF synthesis framework with general image priors from 2D diffusion models. Formulating single-view reconstruction as an image-conditioned 3D generation problem, we optimize the NeRF representations by minimizing a diffusion loss on its arbitrary view renderings with a pretrained image diffusion model under the input-view constraint. We leverage off-the-shelf vision-language models and introduce a two-section language guidance as conditioning inputs to the diffusion model. This is essentially helpful for improving multiview content coherence as it narrows down the general image prior conditioned on the semantic and visual features of the single-view input image. Additionally, we introduce a geometric loss based on estimated depth maps to regularize the underlying 3D geometry of the NeRF. Experimental results on the DTU MVS dataset show that our method can synthesize novel views with higher quality even compared to existing methods trained on this dataset. We also demonstrate our generalizability in zero-shot NeRF synthesis for in-the-wild images.
SceneRF: Self-Supervised Monocular 3D Scene Reconstruction with Radiance Fields
3D reconstruction from 2D image was extensively studied, training with depth supervision. To relax the dependence to costly-acquired datasets, we propose SceneRF, a self-supervised monocular scene reconstruction method using only posed image sequences for training. Fueled by the recent progress in neural radiance fields (NeRF) we optimize a radiance field though with explicit depth optimization and a novel probabilistic sampling strategy to efficiently handle large scenes. At inference, a single input image suffices to hallucinate novel depth views which are fused together to obtain 3D scene reconstruction. Thorough experiments demonstrate that we outperform all recent baselines for novel depth views synthesis and scene reconstruction, on indoor BundleFusion and outdoor SemanticKITTI. Our code is available at https://astra-vision.github.io/SceneRF.
Real Time Incremental Image Mosaicking Without Use of Any Camera Parameter
Over the past decade, there has been a significant increase in the use of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) to support a wide variety of missions, such as remote surveillance, vehicle tracking, and object detection. For problems involving processing of areas larger than a single image, the mosaicking of UAV imagery is a necessary step. Real-time image mosaicking is used for missions that requires fast response like search and rescue missions. It typically requires information from additional sensors, such as Global Position System (GPS) and Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU), to facilitate direct orientation, or 3D reconstruction approaches to recover the camera poses. This paper proposes a UAV-based system for real-time creation of incremental mosaics which does not require either direct or indirect camera parameters such as orientation information. Inspired by previous approaches, in the mosaicking process, feature extraction from images, matching of similar key points between images, finding homography matrix to warp and align images, and blending images to obtain mosaics better looking, plays important roles in the achievement of the high quality result. Edge detection is used in the blending step as a novel approach. Experimental results show that real-time incremental image mosaicking process can be completed satisfactorily and without need for any additional camera parameters.
Fast and Lightweight Scene Regressor for Camera Relocalization
Camera relocalization involving a prior 3D reconstruction plays a crucial role in many mixed reality and robotics applications. Estimating the camera pose directly with respect to pre-built 3D models can be prohibitively expensive for several applications with limited storage and/or communication bandwidth. Although recent scene and absolute pose regression methods have become popular for efficient camera localization, most of them are computation-resource intensive and difficult to obtain a real-time inference with high accuracy constraints. This study proposes a simple scene regression method that requires only a multi-layer perceptron network for mapping scene coordinates to achieve accurate camera pose estimations. The proposed approach uses sparse descriptors to regress the scene coordinates, instead of a dense RGB image. The use of sparse features provides several advantages. First, the proposed regressor network is substantially smaller than those reported in previous studies. This makes our system highly efficient and scalable. Second, the pre-built 3D models provide the most reliable and robust 2D-3D matches. Therefore, learning from them can lead to an awareness of equivalent features and substantially improve the generalization performance. A detailed analysis of our approach and extensive evaluations using existing datasets are provided to support the proposed method. The implementation detail is available at https://github.com/aislab/feat2map
MaRF: Representing Mars as Neural Radiance Fields
The aim of this work is to introduce MaRF, a novel framework able to synthesize the Martian environment using several collections of images from rover cameras. The idea is to generate a 3D scene of Mars' surface to address key challenges in planetary surface exploration such as: planetary geology, simulated navigation and shape analysis. Although there exist different methods to enable a 3D reconstruction of Mars' surface, they rely on classical computer graphics techniques that incur high amounts of computational resources during the reconstruction process, and have limitations with generalizing reconstructions to unseen scenes and adapting to new images coming from rover cameras. The proposed framework solves the aforementioned limitations by exploiting Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs), a method that synthesize complex scenes by optimizing a continuous volumetric scene function using a sparse set of images. To speed up the learning process, we replaced the sparse set of rover images with their neural graphics primitives (NGPs), a set of vectors of fixed length that are learned to preserve the information of the original images in a significantly smaller size. In the experimental section, we demonstrate the environments created from actual Mars datasets captured by Curiosity rover, Perseverance rover and Ingenuity helicopter, all of which are available on the Planetary Data System (PDS).
Fast Non-Rigid Radiance Fields from Monocularized Data
3D reconstruction and novel view synthesis of dynamic scenes from collections of single views recently gained increased attention. Existing work shows impressive results for synthetic setups and forward-facing real-world data, but is severely limited in the training speed and angular range for generating novel views. This paper addresses these limitations and proposes a new method for full 360{\deg} novel view synthesis of non-rigidly deforming scenes. At the core of our method are: 1) An efficient deformation module that decouples the processing of spatial and temporal information for acceleration at training and inference time; and 2) A static module representing the canonical scene as a fast hash-encoded neural radiance field. We evaluate the proposed approach on the established synthetic D-NeRF benchmark, that enables efficient reconstruction from a single monocular view per time-frame randomly sampled from a full hemisphere. We refer to this form of inputs as monocularized data. To prove its practicality for real-world scenarios, we recorded twelve challenging sequences with human actors by sampling single frames from a synchronized multi-view rig. In both cases, our method is trained significantly faster than previous methods (minutes instead of days) while achieving higher visual accuracy for generated novel views. Our source code and data is available at our project page https://graphics.tu-bs.de/publications/kappel2022fast.
SparseFusion: Distilling View-conditioned Diffusion for 3D Reconstruction
We propose SparseFusion, a sparse view 3D reconstruction approach that unifies recent advances in neural rendering and probabilistic image generation. Existing approaches typically build on neural rendering with re-projected features but fail to generate unseen regions or handle uncertainty under large viewpoint changes. Alternate methods treat this as a (probabilistic) 2D synthesis task, and while they can generate plausible 2D images, they do not infer a consistent underlying 3D. However, we find that this trade-off between 3D consistency and probabilistic image generation does not need to exist. In fact, we show that geometric consistency and generative inference can be complementary in a mode-seeking behavior. By distilling a 3D consistent scene representation from a view-conditioned latent diffusion model, we are able to recover a plausible 3D representation whose renderings are both accurate and realistic. We evaluate our approach across 51 categories in the CO3D dataset and show that it outperforms existing methods, in both distortion and perception metrics, for sparse-view novel view synthesis.
FADEC: FPGA-based Acceleration of Video Depth Estimation by HW/SW Co-design
3D reconstruction from videos has become increasingly popular for various applications, including navigation for autonomous driving of robots and drones, augmented reality (AR), and 3D modeling. This task often combines traditional image/video processing algorithms and deep neural networks (DNNs). Although recent developments in deep learning have improved the accuracy of the task, the large number of calculations involved results in low computation speed and high power consumption. Although there are various domain-specific hardware accelerators for DNNs, it is not easy to accelerate the entire process of applications that alternate between traditional image/video processing algorithms and DNNs. Thus, FPGA-based end-to-end acceleration is required for such complicated applications in low-power embedded environments.   This paper proposes a novel FPGA-based accelerator for DeepVideoMVS, a DNN-based depth estimation method for 3D reconstruction. We employ HW/SW co-design to appropriately utilize heterogeneous components in modern SoC FPGAs, such as programmable logic (PL) and CPU, according to the inherent characteristics of the method. As some operations are unsuitable for hardware implementation, we determine the operations to be implemented in software through analyzing the number of times each operation is performed and its memory access pattern, and then considering comprehensive aspects: the ease of hardware implementation and degree of expected acceleration by hardware. The hardware and software implementations are executed in parallel on the PL and CPU to hide their execution latencies. The proposed accelerator was developed on a Xilinx ZCU104 board by using NNgen, an open-source high-level synthesis (HLS) tool. Experiments showed that the proposed accelerator operates 60.2 times faster than the software-only implementation on the same FPGA board with minimal accuracy degradation.
Multi-view Tracking, Re-ID, and Social Network Analysis of a Flock of Visually Similar Birds in an Outdoor Aviary
The ability to capture detailed interactions among individuals in a social group is foundational to our study of animal behavior and neuroscience. Recent advances in deep learning and computer vision are driving rapid progress in methods that can record the actions and interactions of multiple individuals simultaneously. Many social species, such as birds, however, live deeply embedded in a three-dimensional world. This world introduces additional perceptual challenges such as occlusions, orientation-dependent appearance, large variation in apparent size, and poor sensor coverage for 3D reconstruction, that are not encountered by applications studying animals that move and interact only on 2D planes. Here we introduce a system for studying the behavioral dynamics of a group of songbirds as they move throughout a 3D aviary. We study the complexities that arise when tracking a group of closely interacting animals in three dimensions and introduce a novel dataset for evaluating multi-view trackers. Finally, we analyze captured ethogram data and demonstrate that social context affects the distribution of sequential interactions between birds in the aviary.
NOPE-SAC: Neural One-Plane RANSAC for Sparse-View Planar 3D Reconstruction
This paper studies the challenging two-view 3D reconstruction in a rigorous sparse-view configuration, which is suffering from insufficient correspondences in the input image pairs for camera pose estimation. We present a novel Neural One-PlanE RANSAC framework (termed NOPE-SAC in short) that exerts excellent capability to learn one-plane pose hypotheses from 3D plane correspondences. Building on the top of a siamese plane detection network, our NOPE-SAC first generates putative plane correspondences with a coarse initial pose. It then feeds the learned 3D plane parameters of correspondences into shared MLPs to estimate the one-plane camera pose hypotheses, which are subsequently reweighed in a RANSAC manner to obtain the final camera pose. Because the neural one-plane pose minimizes the number of plane correspondences for adaptive pose hypotheses generation, it enables stable pose voting and reliable pose refinement in a few plane correspondences for the sparse-view inputs. In the experiments, we demonstrate that our NOPE-SAC significantly improves the camera pose estimation for the two-view inputs with severe viewpoint changes, setting several new state-of-the-art performances on two challenging benchmarks, i.e., MatterPort3D and ScanNet, for sparse-view 3D reconstruction. The source code is released at https://github.com/IceTTTb/NopeSAC for reproducible research.
Gravity in the Local Universe : density and velocity fields using CosmicFlows-4
This article publicly releases three-dimensional reconstructions of the local Universe gravitational field below z=0.8 that were computed using the CosmicFlows-4 catalog of 56,000 galaxy distances and its sub-sample of 1,008 type Ia supernovae distances. The article also provides measurements of the growth rate of structure using the pairwise correlation of radial peculiar velocities f sigma8 = 0.38(+/-0.04) (ungrouped CF4), f sigma8 = 0.36(+/-0.05) (grouped CF4), f sigma8 = 0.30(+/-0.06) (SNIa) and of the bulk flow in the 3D reconstructed Local Universe of 230 +/- 136 km s-1 at 300 Mpc of distance from the observer. The exploration of 10,000 reconstructions gives that the distances delivered by the Cosmicflows-4 catalog are compatible with a Hubble constant of H0 = 74.5 +/- 0.1 (grouped CF4), H0 = 75.0 +/- 0.35 (ungrouped CF4) and H0 = 75.5 +/- 0.95 (CF4 SNIa subsample).
DATID-3D: Diversity-Preserved Domain Adaptation Using Text-to-Image Diffusion for 3D Generative Model
Recent 3D generative models have achieved remarkable performance in synthesizing high resolution photorealistic images with view consistency and detailed 3D shapes, but training them for diverse domains is challenging since it requires massive training images and their camera distribution information. Text-guided domain adaptation methods have shown impressive performance on converting the 2D generative model on one domain into the models on other domains with different styles by leveraging the CLIP (Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training), rather than collecting massive datasets for those domains. However, one drawback of them is that the sample diversity in the original generative model is not well-preserved in the domain-adapted generative models due to the deterministic nature of the CLIP text encoder. Text-guided domain adaptation will be even more challenging for 3D generative models not only because of catastrophic diversity loss, but also because of inferior text-image correspondence and poor image quality. Here we propose DATID-3D, a domain adaptation method tailored for 3D generative models using text-to-image diffusion models that can synthesize diverse images per text prompt without collecting additional images and camera information for the target domain. Unlike 3D extensions of prior text-guided domain adaptation methods, our novel pipeline was able to fine-tune the state-of-the-art 3D generator of the source domain to synthesize high resolution, multi-view consistent images in text-guided targeted domains without additional data, outperforming the existing text-guided domain adaptation methods in diversity and text-image correspondence. Furthermore, we propose and demonstrate diverse 3D image manipulations such as one-shot instance-selected adaptation and single-view manipulated 3D reconstruction to fully enjoy diversity in text.
PatchMatch-Stereo-Panorama, a fast dense reconstruction from 360 video images
This work proposes a new method for real-time dense 3d reconstruction for common 360{\deg} action cams, which can be mounted on small scouting UAVs during USAR missions. The proposed method extends a feature based Visual monocular SLAM (OpenVSLAM, based on the popular ORB-SLAM) for robust long-term localization on equirectangular video input by adding an additional densification thread that computes dense correspondences for any given keyframe with respect to a local keyframe-neighboorhood using a PatchMatch-Stereo-approach. While PatchMatch-Stereo-types of algorithms are considered state of the art for large scale Mutli-View-Stereo they had not been adapted so far for real-time dense 3d reconstruction tasks. This work describes a new massively parallel variant of the PatchMatch-Stereo-algorithm that differs from current approaches in two ways: First it supports the equirectangular camera model while other solutions are limited to the pinhole camera model. Second it is optimized for low latency while keeping a high level of completeness and accuracy. To achieve this it operates only on small sequences of keyframes, but employs techniques to compensate for the potential loss of accuracy due to the limited number of frames. Results demonstrate that dense 3d reconstruction is possible on a consumer grade laptop with a recent mobile GPU and that it is possible with improved accuracy and completeness over common offline-MVS solutions with comparable quality settings.
SparsePose: Sparse-View Camera Pose Regression and Refinement
Camera pose estimation is a key step in standard 3D reconstruction pipelines that operate on a dense set of images of a single object or scene. However, methods for pose estimation often fail when only a few images are available because they rely on the ability to robustly identify and match visual features between image pairs. While these methods can work robustly with dense camera views, capturing a large set of images can be time-consuming or impractical. We propose SparsePose for recovering accurate camera poses given a sparse set of wide-baseline images (fewer than 10). The method learns to regress initial camera poses and then iteratively refine them after training on a large-scale dataset of objects (Co3D: Common Objects in 3D). SparsePose significantly outperforms conventional and learning-based baselines in recovering accurate camera rotations and translations. We also demonstrate our pipeline for high-fidelity 3D reconstruction using only 5-9 images of an object.
Fast-SNARF: A Fast Deformer for Articulated Neural Fields
Neural fields have revolutionized the area of 3D reconstruction and novel view synthesis of rigid scenes. A key challenge in making such methods applicable to articulated objects, such as the human body, is to model the deformation of 3D locations between the rest pose (a canonical space) and the deformed space. We propose a new articulation module for neural fields, Fast-SNARF, which finds accurate correspondences between canonical space and posed space via iterative root finding. Fast-SNARF is a drop-in replacement in functionality to our previous work, SNARF, while significantly improving its computational efficiency. We contribute several algorithmic and implementation improvements over SNARF, yielding a speed-up of $150\times$. These improvements include voxel-based correspondence search, pre-computing the linear blend skinning function, and an efficient software implementation with CUDA kernels. Fast-SNARF enables efficient and simultaneous optimization of shape and skinning weights given deformed observations without correspondences (e.g. 3D meshes). Because learning of deformation maps is a crucial component in many 3D human avatar methods and since Fast-SNARF provides a computationally efficient solution, we believe that this work represents a significant step towards the practical creation of 3D virtual humans.
How nanoporous silicon-polypyrrole hybrids flex their muscles in aqueous electrolytes: In operando high-resolution x-ray diffraction and electron tomography-based micromechanical computer simulations
Macroscopic strain experiments revealed that Si crystals traversed by parallel, channel-like nanopores functionalized with the muscle polymer polypyrrole exhibit large and reversible electrochemo-mechanical actuation in aqueous electrolytes. On the microscopical level this system still bears open questions, as to how the electrochemical expansion and contraction of PPy acts on to np-Si pore walls and how the collective motorics of the pore array emerges from the single-nanopore behavior. An analysis of in operando X-ray diffraction experiments with micromechanical finite element simulations, based on a 3D reconstruction of the nanoporous medium by TEM tomography, shows that the in-plane mechanical response is dominantly isotropic despite the anisotropic elasticity of the single crystalline host matrix. However, the structural anisotropy originating from the parallel alignment of the nanopores lead to significant differences between the in- and out-of-plane electromechanical response. This response is not describable by a simple 2D arrangement of parallel cylindrical channels. Rather, the simulations highlight that the dendritic shape of the Si pore walls, including pore connections between the main channels, cause complex, inhomogeneous stress-strain fields in the crystalline host. Time-dependent X-ray scattering on the dynamics of the actuator properties hint towards the importance of diffusion limitations, plastic deformation and creep in the nanoconfined polymer upon (counter-)ion adsorption and desorption, the very pore-scale processes causing the macroscopic electroactuation. From a more general perspective, our study demonstrates that the combination of TEM tomography-based micromechanical modeling with high-resolution X-ray scattering experiments provides a powerful approach for in operando analysis of nanoporous composites from the single-nanopore up to the porous-medium scale.
