Topology Repairing of Disconnected Pulmonary Airways and Vessels: Baselines and a Dataset
Accurate segmentation of pulmonary airways and vessels is crucial for the diagnosis and treatment of pulmonary diseases. However, current deep learning approaches suffer from disconnectivity issues that hinder their clinical usefulness. To address this challenge, we propose a post-processing approach that leverages a data-driven method to repair the topology of disconnected pulmonary tubular structures. Our approach formulates the problem as a keypoint detection task, where a neural network is trained to predict keypoints that can bridge disconnected components. We use a training data synthesis pipeline that generates disconnected data from complete pulmonary structures. Moreover, the new Pulmonary Tree Repairing (PTR) dataset is publicly available, which comprises 800 complete 3D models of pulmonary airways, arteries, and veins, as well as the synthetic disconnected data. Our code and data are available at https://github.com/M3DV/pulmonary-tree-repairing.
Learning Probabilistic Coordinate Fields for Robust Correspondences
We introduce Probabilistic Coordinate Fields (PCFs), a novel geometric-invariant coordinate representation for image correspondence problems. In contrast to standard Cartesian coordinates, PCFs encode coordinates in correspondence-specific barycentric coordinate systems (BCS) with affine invariance. To know \textit{when and where to trust} the encoded coordinates, we implement PCFs in a probabilistic network termed PCF-Net, which parameterizes the distribution of coordinate fields as Gaussian mixture models. By jointly optimizing coordinate fields and their confidence conditioned on dense flows, PCF-Net can work with various feature descriptors when quantifying the reliability of PCFs by confidence maps. An interesting observation of this work is that the learned confidence map converges to geometrically coherent and semantically consistent regions, which facilitates robust coordinate representation. By delivering the confident coordinates to keypoint/feature descriptors, we show that PCF-Net can be used as a plug-in to existing correspondence-dependent approaches. Extensive experiments on both indoor and outdoor datasets suggest that accurate geometric invariant coordinates help to achieve the state of the art in several correspondence problems, such as sparse feature matching, dense image registration, camera pose estimation, and consistency filtering. Further, the interpretable confidence map predicted by PCF-Net can also be leveraged to other novel applications from texture transfer to multi-homography classification.
LDEB -- Label Digitization with Emotion Binarization and Machine Learning for Emotion Recognition in Conversational Dialogues
Emotion recognition in conversations (ERC) is vital to the advancements of conversational AI and its applications. Therefore, the development of an automated ERC model using the concepts of machine learning (ML) would be beneficial. However, the conversational dialogues present a unique problem where each dialogue depicts nested emotions that entangle the association between the emotional feature descriptors and emotion type (or label). This entanglement that can be multiplied with the presence of data paucity is an obstacle for a ML model. To overcome this problem, we proposed a novel approach called Label Digitization with Emotion Binarization (LDEB) that disentangles the twists by utilizing the text normalization and 7-bit digital encoding techniques and constructs a meaningful feature space for a ML model to be trained. We also utilized the publicly available dataset called the FETA-DailyDialog dataset for feature learning and developed a hierarchical ERC model using random forest (RF) and artificial neural network (ANN) classifiers. Simulations showed that the ANN-based ERC model was able to predict emotion with the best accuracy and precision scores of about 74% and 76%, respectively. Simulations also showed that the ANN-model could reach a training accuracy score of about 98% with 60 epochs. On the other hand, the RF-based ERC model was able to predict emotions with the best accuracy and precision scores of about 78% and 75%, respectively.
Self-supervised Interest Point Detection and Description for Fisheye and Perspective Images
Keypoint detection and matching is a fundamental task in many computer vision problems, from shape reconstruction, to structure from motion, to AR/VR applications and robotics. It is a well-studied problem with remarkable successes such as SIFT, and more recent deep learning approaches. While great robustness is exhibited by these techniques with respect to noise, illumination variation, and rigid motion transformations, less attention has been placed on image distortion sensitivity. In this work, we focus on the case when this is caused by the geometry of the cameras used for image acquisition, and consider the keypoint detection and matching problem between the hybrid scenario of a fisheye and a projective image. We build on a state-of-the-art approach and derive a self-supervised procedure that enables training an interest point detector and descriptor network. We also collected two new datasets for additional training and testing in this unexplored scenario, and we demonstrate that current approaches are suboptimal because they are designed to work in traditional projective conditions, while the proposed approach turns out to be the most effective.
A Probabilistic Relaxation of the Two-Stage Object Pose Estimation Paradigm
Existing object pose estimation methods commonly require a one-to-one point matching step that forces them to be separated into two consecutive stages: visual correspondence detection (e.g., by matching feature descriptors as part of a perception front-end) followed by geometric alignment (e.g., by optimizing a robust estimation objective for pointcloud registration or perspective-n-point). Instead, we propose a matching-free probabilistic formulation with two main benefits: i) it enables unified and concurrent optimization of both visual correspondence and geometric alignment, and ii) it can represent different plausible modes of the entire distribution of likely poses. This in turn allows for a more graceful treatment of geometric perception scenarios where establishing one-to-one matches between points is conceptually ill-defined, such as textureless, symmetrical and/or occluded objects and scenes where the correct pose is uncertain or there are multiple equally valid solutions.
Align, Perturb and Decouple: Toward Better Leverage of Difference Information for RSI Change Detection
Change detection is a widely adopted technique in remote sense imagery (RSI) analysis in the discovery of long-term geomorphic evolution. To highlight the areas of semantic changes, previous effort mostly pays attention to learning representative feature descriptors of a single image, while the difference information is either modeled with simple difference operations or implicitly embedded via feature interactions. Nevertheless, such difference modeling can be noisy since it suffers from non-semantic changes and lacks explicit guidance from image content or context. In this paper, we revisit the importance of feature difference for change detection in RSI, and propose a series of operations to fully exploit the difference information: Alignment, Perturbation and Decoupling (APD). Firstly, alignment leverages contextual similarity to compensate for the non-semantic difference in feature space. Next, a difference module trained with semantic-wise perturbation is adopted to learn more generalized change estimators, which reversely bootstraps feature extraction and prediction. Finally, a decoupled dual-decoder structure is designed to predict semantic changes in both content-aware and content-agnostic manners. Extensive experiments are conducted on benchmarks of LEVIR-CD, WHU-CD and DSIFN-CD, demonstrating our proposed operations bring significant improvement and achieve competitive results under similar comparative conditions. Code is available at https://github.com/wangsp1999/CD-Research/tree/main/openAPD
Diffusion Hyperfeatures: Searching Through Time and Space for Semantic Correspondence
Diffusion models have been shown to be capable of generating high-quality images, suggesting that they could contain meaningful internal representations. Unfortunately, the feature maps that encode a diffusion model's internal information are spread not only over layers of the network, but also over diffusion timesteps, making it challenging to extract useful descriptors. We propose Diffusion Hyperfeatures, a framework for consolidating multi-scale and multi-timestep feature maps into per-pixel feature descriptors that can be used for downstream tasks. These descriptors can be extracted for both synthetic and real images using the generation and inversion processes. We evaluate the utility of our Diffusion Hyperfeatures on the task of semantic keypoint correspondence: our method achieves superior performance on the SPair-71k real image benchmark. We also demonstrate that our method is flexible and transferable: our feature aggregation network trained on the inversion features of real image pairs can be used on the generation features of synthetic image pairs with unseen objects and compositions. Our code is available at \url{https://diffusion-hyperfeatures.github.io}.
Non-Separable Multi-Dimensional Network Flows for Visual Computing
Flows in networks (or graphs) play a significant role in numerous computer vision tasks. The scalar-valued edges in these graphs often lead to a loss of information and thereby to limitations in terms of expressiveness. For example, oftentimes high-dimensional data (e.g. feature descriptors) are mapped to a single scalar value (e.g. the similarity between two feature descriptors). To overcome this limitation, we propose a novel formalism for non-separable multi-dimensional network flows. By doing so, we enable an automatic and adaptive feature selection strategy - since the flow is defined on a per-dimension basis, the maximizing flow automatically chooses the best matching feature dimensions. As a proof of concept, we apply our formalism to the multi-object tracking problem and demonstrate that our approach outperforms scalar formulations on the MOT16 benchmark in terms of robustness to noise.
Illumination-insensitive Binary Descriptor for Visual Measurement Based on Local Inter-patch Invariance
Binary feature descriptors have been widely used in various visual measurement tasks, particularly those with limited computing resources and storage capacities. Existing binary descriptors may not perform well for long-term visual measurement tasks due to their sensitivity to illumination variations. It can be observed that when image illumination changes dramatically, the relative relationship among local patches mostly remains intact. Based on the observation, consequently, this study presents an illumination-insensitive binary (IIB) descriptor by leveraging the local inter-patch invariance exhibited in multiple spatial granularities to deal with unfavorable illumination variations. By taking advantage of integral images for local patch feature computation, a highly efficient IIB descriptor is achieved. It can encode scalable features in multiple spatial granularities, thus facilitating a computationally efficient hierarchical matching from coarse to fine. Moreover, the IIB descriptor can also apply to other types of image data, such as depth maps and semantic segmentation results, when available in some applications. Numerical experiments on both natural and synthetic datasets reveal that the proposed IIB descriptor outperforms state-of-the-art binary descriptors and some testing float descriptors. The proposed IIB descriptor has also been successfully employed in a demo system for long-term visual localization. The code of the IIB descriptor will be publicly available.
HD2Reg: Hierarchical Descriptors and Detectors for Point Cloud Registration
Feature Descriptors and Detectors are two main components of feature-based point cloud registration. However, little attention has been drawn to the explicit representation of local and global semantics in the learning of descriptors and detectors. In this paper, we present a framework that explicitly extracts dual-level descriptors and detectors and performs coarse-to-fine matching with them. First, to explicitly learn local and global semantics, we propose a hierarchical contrastive learning strategy, training the robust matching ability of high-level descriptors, and refining the local feature space using low-level descriptors. Furthermore, we propose to learn dual-level saliency maps that extract two groups of keypoints in two different senses. To overcome the weak supervision of binary matchability labels, we propose a ranking strategy to label the significance ranking of keypoints, and thus provide more fine-grained supervision signals. Finally, we propose a global-to-local matching scheme to obtain robust and accurate correspondences by leveraging the complementary dual-level features.Quantitative experiments on 3DMatch and KITTI odometry datasets show that our method achieves robust and accurate point cloud registration and outperforms recent keypoint-based methods.
Human Pose Estimation in Monocular Omnidirectional Top-View Images
Human pose estimation (HPE) with convolutional neural networks (CNNs) for indoor monitoring is one of the major challenges in computer vision. In contrast to HPE in perspective views, an indoor monitoring system can consist of an omnidirectional camera with a field of view of 180{\deg} to detect the pose of a person with only one sensor per room. To recognize human pose, the detection of keypoints is an essential upstream step. In our work we propose a new dataset for training and evaluation of CNNs for the task of keypoint detection in omnidirectional images. The training dataset, THEODORE+, consists of 50,000 images and is created by a 3D rendering engine, where humans are randomly walking through an indoor environment. In a dynamically created 3D scene, persons move randomly with simultaneously moving omnidirectional camera to generate synthetic RGB images and 2D and 3D ground truth. For evaluation purposes, the real-world PoseFES dataset with two scenarios and 701 frames with up to eight persons per scene was captured and annotated. We propose four training paradigms to finetune or re-train two top-down models in MMPose and two bottom-up models in CenterNet on THEODORE+. Beside a qualitative evaluation we report quantitative results. Compared to a COCO pretrained baseline, we achieve significant improvements especially for top-view scenes on the PoseFES dataset. Our datasets can be found at https://www.tu-chemnitz.de/etit/dst/forschung/comp_vision/datasets/index.php.en.
CoPR: Towards Accurate Visual Localization With Continuous Place-descriptor Regression
Visual Place Recognition (VPR) is an image-based localization method that estimates the camera location of a query image by retrieving the most similar reference image from a map of geo-tagged reference images. In this work, we look into two fundamental bottlenecks for its localization accuracy: reference map sparseness and viewpoint invariance. Firstly, the reference images for VPR are only available at sparse poses in a map, which enforces an upper bound on the maximum achievable localization accuracy through VPR. We therefore propose Continuous Place-descriptor Regression (CoPR) to densify the map and improve localization accuracy. We study various interpolation and extrapolation models to regress additional VPR feature descriptors from only the existing references. Secondly, we compare different feature encoders and show that CoPR presents value for all of them. We evaluate our models on three existing public datasets and report on average around 30% improvement in VPR-based localization accuracy using CoPR, on top of the 15% increase by using a viewpoint-variant loss for the feature encoder. The complementary relation between CoPR and Relative Pose Estimation is also discussed.
SiLK -- Simple Learned Keypoints
Keypoint detection & descriptors are foundational tech-nologies for computer vision tasks like image matching, 3D reconstruction and visual odometry. Hand-engineered methods like Harris corners, SIFT, and HOG descriptors have been used for decades; more recently, there has been a trend to introduce learning in an attempt to improve keypoint detectors. On inspection however, the results are difficult to interpret; recent learning-based methods employ a vast diversity of experimental setups and design choices: empirical results are often reported using different backbones, protocols, datasets, types of supervisions or tasks. Since these differences are often coupled together, it raises a natural question on what makes a good learned keypoint detector. In this work, we revisit the design of existing keypoint detectors by deconstructing their methodologies and identifying the key components. We re-design each component from first-principle and propose Simple Learned Keypoints (SiLK) that is fully-differentiable, lightweight, and flexible. Despite its simplicity, SiLK advances new state-of-the-art on Detection Repeatability and Homography Estimation tasks on HPatches and 3D Point-Cloud Registration task on ScanNet, and achieves competitive performance to state-of-the-art on camera pose estimation in 2022 Image Matching Challenge and ScanNet.
From Saliency to DINO: Saliency-guided Vision Transformer for Few-shot Keypoint Detection
Unlike current deep keypoint detectors that are trained to recognize limited number of body parts, few-shot keypoint detection (FSKD) attempts to localize any keypoints, including novel or base keypoints, depending on the reference samples. FSKD requires the semantically meaningful relations for keypoint similarity learning to overcome the ubiquitous noise and ambiguous local patterns. One rescue comes with vision transformer (ViT) as it captures long-range relations well. However, ViT may model irrelevant features outside of the region of interest due to the global attention matrix, thus degrading similarity learning between support and query features. In this paper, we present a novel saliency-guided vision transformer, dubbed SalViT, for few-shot keypoint detection. Our SalViT enjoys a uniquely designed masked self-attention and a morphology learner, where the former introduces saliency map as a soft mask to constrain the self-attention on foregrounds, while the latter leverages the so-called power normalization to adjust morphology of saliency map, realizing ``dynamically changing receptive field''. Moreover, as salinecy detectors add computations, we show that attentive masks of DINO transformer can replace saliency. On top of SalViT, we also investigate i) transductive FSKD that enhances keypoint representations with unlabelled data and ii) FSKD under occlusions. We show that our model performs well on five public datasets and achieves ~10% PCK higher than the normally trained model under severe occlusions.
NerVE: Neural Volumetric Edges for Parametric Curve Extraction from Point Cloud
Extracting parametric edge curves from point clouds is a fundamental problem in 3D vision and geometry processing. Existing approaches mainly rely on keypoint detection, a challenging procedure that tends to generate noisy output, making the subsequent edge extraction error-prone. To address this issue, we propose to directly detect structured edges to circumvent the limitations of the previous point-wise methods. We achieve this goal by presenting NerVE, a novel neural volumetric edge representation that can be easily learned through a volumetric learning framework. NerVE can be seamlessly converted to a versatile piece-wise linear (PWL) curve representation, enabling a unified strategy for learning all types of free-form curves. Furthermore, as NerVE encodes rich structural information, we show that edge extraction based on NerVE can be reduced to a simple graph search problem. After converting NerVE to the PWL representation, parametric curves can be obtained via off-the-shelf spline fitting algorithms. We evaluate our method on the challenging ABC dataset. We show that a simple network based on NerVE can already outperform the previous state-of-the-art methods by a great margin. Project page: https://dongdu3.github.io/projects/2023/NerVE/.
PanoVPR: Towards Unified Perspective-to-Equirectangular Visual Place Recognition via Sliding Windows across the Panoramic View
Visual place recognition has received increasing attention in recent years as a key technology in autonomous driving and robotics. The current mainstream approaches use either the perspective view retrieval perspective view (P2P) paradigm or the equirectangular image retrieval equirectangular image (E2E) paradigm. However, a natural and practical idea is that users only have consumer-grade pinhole cameras to obtain query perspective images and retrieve them in panoramic database images from map providers. To this end, we propose PanoVPR, a sliding-window-based perspective-to-equirectangular (P2E) visual place recognition framework, which eliminates feature truncation caused by hard cropping by sliding windows over the whole equirectangular image and computing and comparing feature descriptors between windows. In addition, this unified framework allows for directly transferring the network structure used in perspective-to-perspective (P2P) methods without modification. To facilitate training and evaluation, we derive the pitts250k-P2E dataset from the pitts250k and achieve promising results, and we also establish a P2E dataset in a real-world scenario by a mobile robot platform, which we refer to YQ360. Code and datasets will be made available at https://github.com/zafirshi/PanoVPR.
Semantic Image Attack for Visual Model Diagnosis
In practice, metric analysis on a specific train and test dataset does not guarantee reliable or fair ML models. This is partially due to the fact that obtaining a balanced, diverse, and perfectly labeled dataset is typically expensive, time-consuming, and error-prone. Rather than relying on a carefully designed test set to assess ML models' failures, fairness, or robustness, this paper proposes Semantic Image Attack (SIA), a method based on the adversarial attack that provides semantic adversarial images to allow model diagnosis, interpretability, and robustness. Traditional adversarial training is a popular methodology for robustifying ML models against attacks. However, existing adversarial methods do not combine the two aspects that enable the interpretation and analysis of the model's flaws: semantic traceability and perceptual quality. SIA combines the two features via iterative gradient ascent on a predefined semantic attribute space and the image space. We illustrate the validity of our approach in three scenarios for keypoint detection and classification. (1) Model diagnosis: SIA generates a histogram of attributes that highlights the semantic vulnerability of the ML model (i.e., attributes that make the model fail). (2) Stronger attacks: SIA generates adversarial examples with visually interpretable attributes that lead to higher attack success rates than baseline methods. The adversarial training on SIA improves the transferable robustness across different gradient-based attacks. (3) Robustness to imbalanced datasets: we use SIA to augment the underrepresented classes, which outperforms strong augmentation and re-balancing baselines.
Object Pose Estimation with Statistical Guarantees: Conformal Keypoint Detection and Geometric Uncertainty Propagation
The two-stage object pose estimation paradigm first detects semantic keypoints on the image and then estimates the 6D pose by minimizing reprojection errors. Despite performing well on standard benchmarks, existing techniques offer no provable guarantees on the quality and uncertainty of the estimation. In this paper, we inject two fundamental changes, namely conformal keypoint detection and geometric uncertainty propagation, into the two-stage paradigm and propose the first pose estimator that endows an estimation with provable and computable worst-case error bounds. On one hand, conformal keypoint detection applies the statistical machinery of inductive conformal prediction to convert heuristic keypoint detections into circular or elliptical prediction sets that cover the groundtruth keypoints with a user-specified marginal probability (e.g., 90%). Geometric uncertainty propagation, on the other, propagates the geometric constraints on the keypoints to the 6D object pose, leading to a Pose UnceRtainty SEt (PURSE) that guarantees coverage of the groundtruth pose with the same probability. The PURSE, however, is a nonconvex set that does not directly lead to estimated poses and uncertainties. Therefore, we develop RANdom SAmple averaGing (RANSAG) to compute an average pose and apply semidefinite relaxation to upper bound the worst-case errors between the average pose and the groundtruth. On the LineMOD Occlusion dataset we demonstrate: (i) the PURSE covers the groundtruth with valid probabilities; (ii) the worst-case error bounds provide correct uncertainty quantification; and (iii) the average pose achieves better or similar accuracy as representative methods based on sparse keypoints.
RN-Net: Reservoir Nodes-Enabled Neuromorphic Vision Sensing Network
Event-based cameras are inspired by the sparse and asynchronous spike representation of the biological visual system. However, processing the event data requires either using expensive feature descriptors to transform spikes into frames, or using spiking neural networks that are expensive to train. In this work, we propose a neural network architecture, Reservoir Nodes-enabled neuromorphic vision sensing Network (RN-Net), based on simple convolution layers integrated with dynamic temporal encoding reservoirs for local and global spatiotemporal feature detection with low hardware and training costs. The RN-Net allows efficient processing of asynchronous temporal features, and achieves the highest accuracy of 99.2% for DVS128 Gesture reported to date, and one of the highest accuracy of 67.5% for DVS Lip dataset at a much smaller network size. By leveraging the internal device and circuit dynamics, asynchronous temporal feature encoding can be implemented at very low hardware cost without preprocessing and dedicated memory and arithmetic units. The use of simple DNN blocks and standard backpropagation-based training rules further reduces implementation costs.
ShaRPy: Shape Reconstruction and Hand Pose Estimation from RGB-D with Uncertainty
Despite their potential, markerless hand tracking technologies are not yet applied in practice to the diagnosis or monitoring of the activity in inflammatory musculoskeletal diseases. One reason is that the focus of most methods lies in the reconstruction of coarse, plausible poses for gesture recognition or AR/VR applications, whereas in the clinical context, accurate, interpretable, and reliable results are required. Therefore, we propose ShaRPy, the first RGB-D Shape Reconstruction and hand Pose tracking system, which provides uncertainty estimates of the computed pose to guide clinical decision-making. Our method requires only a light-weight setup with a single consumer-level RGB-D camera yet it is able to distinguish similar poses with only small joint angle deviations. This is achieved by combining a data-driven dense correspondence predictor with traditional energy minimization, optimizing for both, pose and hand shape parameters. We evaluate ShaRPy on a keypoint detection benchmark and show qualitative results on recordings of a patient.
Descriptor Distillation for Efficient Multi-Robot SLAM
Performing accurate localization while maintaining the low-level communication bandwidth is an essential challenge of multi-robot simultaneous localization and mapping (MR-SLAM). In this paper, we tackle this problem by generating a compact yet discriminative feature descriptor with minimum inference time. We propose descriptor distillation that formulates the descriptor generation into a learning problem under the teacher-student framework. To achieve real-time descriptor generation, we design a compact student network and learn it by transferring the knowledge from a pre-trained large teacher model. To reduce the descriptor dimensions from the teacher to the student, we propose a novel loss function that enables the knowledge transfer between two different dimensional descriptors. The experimental results demonstrate that our model is 30% lighter than the state-of-the-art model and produces better descriptors in patch matching. Moreover, we build a MR-SLAM system based on the proposed method and show that our descriptor distillation can achieve higher localization performance for MR-SLAM with lower bandwidth.
From Local Binary Patterns to Pixel Difference Networks for Efficient Visual Representation Learning
LBP is a successful hand-crafted feature descriptor in computer vision. However, in the deep learning era, deep neural networks, especially convolutional neural networks (CNNs) can automatically learn powerful task-aware features that are more discriminative and of higher representational capacity. To some extent, such hand-crafted features can be safely ignored when designing deep computer vision models. Nevertheless, due to LBP's preferable properties in visual representation learning, an interesting topic has arisen to explore the value of LBP in enhancing modern deep models in terms of efficiency, memory consumption, and predictive performance. In this paper, we provide a comprehensive review on such efforts which aims to incorporate the LBP mechanism into the design of CNN modules to make deep models stronger. In retrospect of what has been achieved so far, the paper discusses open challenges and directions for future research.
KGNv2: Separating Scale and Pose Prediction for Keypoint-based 6-DoF Grasp Synthesis on RGB-D input
We propose a new 6-DoF grasp pose synthesis approach from 2D/2.5D input based on keypoints. Keypoint-based grasp detector from image input has demonstrated promising results in the previous study, where the additional visual information provided by color images compensates for the noisy depth perception. However, it relies heavily on accurately predicting the location of keypoints in the image space. In this paper, we devise a new grasp generation network that reduces the dependency on precise keypoint estimation. Given an RGB-D input, our network estimates both the grasp pose from keypoint detection as well as scale towards the camera. We further re-design the keypoint output space in order to mitigate the negative impact of keypoint prediction noise to Perspective-n-Point (PnP) algorithm. Experiments show that the proposed method outperforms the baseline by a large margin, validating the efficacy of our approach. Finally, despite trained on simple synthetic objects, our method demonstrate sim-to-real capacity by showing competitive results in real-world robot experiments.
External Camera-based Mobile Robot Pose Estimation for Collaborative Perception with Smart Edge Sensors
We present an approach for estimating a mobile robot's pose w.r.t. the allocentric coordinates of a network of static cameras using multi-view RGB images. The images are processed online, locally on smart edge sensors by deep neural networks to detect the robot and estimate 2D keypoints defined at distinctive positions of the 3D robot model. Robot keypoint detections are synchronized and fused on a central backend, where the robot's pose is estimated via multi-view minimization of reprojection errors. Through the pose estimation from external cameras, the robot's localization can be initialized in an allocentric map from a completely unknown state (kidnapped robot problem) and robustly tracked over time. We conduct a series of experiments evaluating the accuracy and robustness of the camera-based pose estimation compared to the robot's internal navigation stack, showing that our camera-based method achieves pose errors below 3 cm and 1{\deg} and does not drift over time, as the robot is localized allocentrically. With the robot's pose precisely estimated, its observations can be fused into the allocentric scene model. We show a real-world application, where observations from mobile robot and static smart edge sensors are fused to collaboratively build a 3D semantic map of a $\sim$240 m$^2$ indoor environment.
PaRK-Detect: Towards Efficient Multi-Task Satellite Imagery Road Extraction via Patch-Wise Keypoints Detection
Automatically extracting roads from satellite imagery is a fundamental yet challenging computer vision task in the field of remote sensing. Pixel-wise semantic segmentation-based approaches and graph-based approaches are two prevailing schemes. However, prior works show the imperfections that semantic segmentation-based approaches yield road graphs with low connectivity, while graph-based methods with iterative exploring paradigms and smaller receptive fields focus more on local information and are also time-consuming. In this paper, we propose a new scheme for multi-task satellite imagery road extraction, Patch-wise Road Keypoints Detection (PaRK-Detect). Building on top of D-LinkNet architecture and adopting the structure of keypoint detection, our framework predicts the position of patch-wise road keypoints and the adjacent relationships between them to construct road graphs in a single pass. Meanwhile, the multi-task framework also performs pixel-wise semantic segmentation and generates road segmentation masks. We evaluate our approach against the existing state-of-the-art methods on DeepGlobe, Massachusetts Roads, and RoadTracer datasets and achieve competitive or better results. We also demonstrate a considerable outperformance in terms of inference speed.
Hybrid machine-learned homogenization: Bayesian data mining and convolutional neural networks
Beyond the generally deployed features for microstructure property prediction this study aims to improve the machine learned prediction by developing novel feature descriptors. Therefore, Bayesian infused data mining is conducted to acquire samples containing characteristics inexplicable to the current feature set, and suitable feature descriptors to describe these characteristics are proposed. The iterative development of feature descriptors resulted in 37 novel features, being able to reduce the prediction error by roughly one third. To further improve the predictive model, convolutional neural networks (Conv Nets) are deployed to generate auxiliary features in a supervised machine learning manner. The Conv Nets were able to outperform the feature based approach. A key ingredient for that is a newly proposed data augmentation scheme and the development of so-called deep inception modules. A combination of the feature based approach and the convolutional neural network leads to a hybrid neural network: A parallel deployment of the both neural network archetypes in a single model achieved a relative rooted mean squared error below 1%, more than halving the error compared to prior models operating on the same data. The hybrid neural network was found powerful enough to be extended to predict variable material parameters, from a low to high phase contrast, while allowing for arbitrary microstructure geometry at the same time.
Deep Reinforcement Learning Based on Local GNN for Goal-conditioned Deformable Object Rearranging
Object rearranging is one of the most common deformable manipulation tasks, where the robot needs to rearrange a deformable object into a goal configuration. Previous studies focus on designing an expert system for each specific task by model-based or data-driven approaches and the application scenarios are therefore limited. Some research has been attempting to design a general framework to obtain more advanced manipulation capabilities for deformable rearranging tasks, with lots of progress achieved in simulation. However, transferring from simulation to reality is difficult due to the limitation of the end-to-end CNN architecture. To address these challenges, we design a local GNN (Graph Neural Network) based learning method, which utilizes two representation graphs to encode keypoints detected from images. Self-attention is applied for graph updating and cross-attention is applied for generating manipulation actions. Extensive experiments have been conducted to demonstrate that our framework is effective in multiple 1-D (rope, rope ring) and 2-D (cloth) rearranging tasks in simulation and can be easily transferred to a real robot by fine-tuning a keypoint detector.
A Correct-and-Certify Approach to Self-Supervise Object Pose Estimators via Ensemble Self-Training
Real-world robotics applications demand object pose estimation methods that work reliably across a variety of scenarios. Modern learning-based approaches require large labeled datasets and tend to perform poorly outside the training domain. Our first contribution is to develop a robust corrector module that corrects pose estimates using depth information, thus enabling existing methods to better generalize to new test domains; the corrector operates on semantic keypoints (but is also applicable to other pose estimators) and is fully differentiable. Our second contribution is an ensemble self-training approach that simultaneously trains multiple pose estimators in a self-supervised manner. Our ensemble self-training architecture uses the robust corrector to refine the output of each pose estimator; then, it evaluates the quality of the outputs using observable correctness certificates; finally, it uses the observably correct outputs for further training, without requiring external supervision. As an additional contribution, we propose small improvements to a regression-based keypoint detection architecture, to enhance its robustness to outliers; these improvements include a robust pooling scheme and a robust centroid computation. Experiments on the YCBV and TLESS datasets show the proposed ensemble self-training outperforms fully supervised baselines while not requiring 3D annotations on real data.
Rethinking Vision Transformer and Masked Autoencoder in Multimodal Face Anti-Spoofing
Recently, vision transformer (ViT) based multimodal learning methods have been proposed to improve the robustness of face anti-spoofing (FAS) systems. However, there are still no works to explore the fundamental natures (\textit{e.g.}, modality-aware inputs, suitable multimodal pre-training, and efficient finetuning) in vanilla ViT for multimodal FAS. In this paper, we investigate three key factors (i.e., inputs, pre-training, and finetuning) in ViT for multimodal FAS with RGB, Infrared (IR), and Depth. First, in terms of the ViT inputs, we find that leveraging local feature descriptors benefits the ViT on IR modality but not RGB or Depth modalities. Second, in observation of the inefficiency on direct finetuning the whole or partial ViT, we design an adaptive multimodal adapter (AMA), which can efficiently aggregate local multimodal features while freezing majority of ViT parameters. Finally, in consideration of the task (FAS vs. generic object classification) and modality (multimodal vs. unimodal) gaps, ImageNet pre-trained models might be sub-optimal for the multimodal FAS task. To bridge these gaps, we propose the modality-asymmetric masked autoencoder (M$^{2}$A$^{2}$E) for multimodal FAS self-supervised pre-training without costly annotated labels. Compared with the previous modality-symmetric autoencoder, the proposed M$^{2}$A$^{2}$E is able to learn more intrinsic task-aware representation and compatible with modality-agnostic (e.g., unimodal, bimodal, and trimodal) downstream settings. Extensive experiments with both unimodal (RGB, Depth, IR) and multimodal (RGB+Depth, RGB+IR, Depth+IR, RGB+Depth+IR) settings conducted on multimodal FAS benchmarks demonstrate the superior performance of the proposed methods. We hope these findings and solutions can facilitate the future research for ViT-based multimodal FAS.
MAPS: A Noise-Robust Progressive Learning Approach for Source-Free Domain Adaptive Keypoint Detection
Existing cross-domain keypoint detection methods always require accessing the source data during adaptation, which may violate the data privacy law and pose serious security concerns. Instead, this paper considers a realistic problem setting called source-free domain adaptive keypoint detection, where only the well-trained source model is provided to the target domain. For the challenging problem, we first construct a teacher-student learning baseline by stabilizing the predictions under data augmentation and network ensembles. Built on this, we further propose a unified approach, Mixup Augmentation and Progressive Selection (MAPS), to fully exploit the noisy pseudo labels of unlabeled target data during training. On the one hand, MAPS regularizes the model to favor simple linear behavior in-between the target samples via self-mixup augmentation, preventing the model from over-fitting to noisy predictions. On the other hand, MAPS employs the self-paced learning paradigm and progressively selects pseudo-labeled samples from `easy' to `hard' into the training process to reduce noise accumulation. Results on four keypoint detection datasets show that MAPS outperforms the baseline and achieves comparable or even better results in comparison to previous non-source-free counterparts.
Explicit Box Detection Unifies End-to-End Multi-Person Pose Estimation
This paper presents a novel end-to-end framework with Explicit box Detection for multi-person Pose estimation, called ED-Pose, where it unifies the contextual learning between human-level (global) and keypoint-level (local) information. Different from previous one-stage methods, ED-Pose re-considers this task as two explicit box detection processes with a unified representation and regression supervision. First, we introduce a human detection decoder from encoded tokens to extract global features. It can provide a good initialization for the latter keypoint detection, making the training process converge fast. Second, to bring in contextual information near keypoints, we regard pose estimation as a keypoint box detection problem to learn both box positions and contents for each keypoint. A human-to-keypoint detection decoder adopts an interactive learning strategy between human and keypoint features to further enhance global and local feature aggregation. In general, ED-Pose is conceptually simple without post-processing and dense heatmap supervision. It demonstrates its effectiveness and efficiency compared with both two-stage and one-stage methods. Notably, explicit box detection boosts the pose estimation performance by 4.5 AP on COCO and 9.9 AP on CrowdPose. For the first time, as a fully end-to-end framework with a L1 regression loss, ED-Pose surpasses heatmap-based Top-down methods under the same backbone by 1.2 AP on COCO and achieves the state-of-the-art with 76.6 AP on CrowdPose without bells and whistles. Code is available at https://github.com/IDEA-Research/ED-Pose.
Simple, Effective and General: A New Backbone for Cross-view Image Geo-localization
In this work, we aim at an important but less explored problem of a simple yet effective backbone specific for cross-view geo-localization task. Existing methods for cross-view geo-localization tasks are frequently characterized by 1) complicated methodologies, 2) GPU-consuming computations, and 3) a stringent assumption that aerial and ground images are centrally or orientation aligned. To address the above three challenges for cross-view image matching, we propose a new backbone network, named Simple Attention-based Image Geo-localization network (SAIG). The proposed SAIG effectively represents long-range interactions among patches as well as cross-view correspondence with multi-head self-attention layers. The "narrow-deep" architecture of our SAIG improves the feature richness without degradation in performance, while its shallow and effective convolutional stem preserves the locality, eliminating the loss of patchify boundary information. Our SAIG achieves state-of-the-art results on cross-view geo-localization, while being far simpler than previous works. Furthermore, with only 15.9% of the model parameters and half of the output dimension compared to the state-of-the-art, the SAIG adapts well across multiple cross-view datasets without employing any well-designed feature aggregation modules or feature alignment algorithms. In addition, our SAIG attains competitive scores on image retrieval benchmarks, further demonstrating its generalizability. As a backbone network, our SAIG is both easy to follow and computationally lightweight, which is meaningful in practical scenario. Moreover, we propose a simple Spatial-Mixed feature aggregation moDule (SMD) that can mix and project spatial information into a low-dimensional space to generate feature descriptors... (The code is available at https://github.com/yanghongji2007/SAIG)
Vision Aided Environment Semantics Extraction and Its Application in mmWave Beam Selection
In this letter, we propose a novel mmWave beam selection method based on the environment semantics extracted from user-side camera images. Specifically, we first define the environment semantics as the spatial distribution of the scatterers that affect the wireless propagation channels and utilize the keypoint detection technique to extract them from the input images. Then, we design a deep neural network with the environment semantics as the input that can output the optimal beam pairs at the mobile station (MS) and the base station (BS). Compared with the existing beam selection approaches that directly use images as the input, the proposed semantic-based method can explicitly obtain the environmental features that account for the propagation of wireless signals, thus reducing the storage and computational burden. Simulation results show that the proposed method can precisely estimate the location of the scatterers and outperform the existing works based on computer vision or light detection and ranging (LIDAR).
OnePose++: Keypoint-Free One-Shot Object Pose Estimation without CAD Models
We propose a new method for object pose estimation without CAD models. The previous feature-matching-based method OnePose has shown promising results under a one-shot setting which eliminates the need for CAD models or object-specific training. However, OnePose relies on detecting repeatable image keypoints and is thus prone to failure on low-textured objects. We propose a keypoint-free pose estimation pipeline to remove the need for repeatable keypoint detection. Built upon the detector-free feature matching method LoFTR, we devise a new keypoint-free SfM method to reconstruct a semi-dense point-cloud model for the object. Given a query image for object pose estimation, a 2D-3D matching network directly establishes 2D-3D correspondences between the query image and the reconstructed point-cloud model without first detecting keypoints in the image. Experiments show that the proposed pipeline outperforms existing one-shot CAD-model-free methods by a large margin and is comparable to CAD-model-based methods on LINEMOD even for low-textured objects. We also collect a new dataset composed of 80 sequences of 40 low-textured objects to facilitate future research on one-shot object pose estimation. The supplementary material, code and dataset are available on the project page: https://zju3dv.github.io/onepose_plus_plus/.
Towards High Performance One-Stage Human Pose Estimation
Making top-down human pose estimation method present both good performance and high efficiency is appealing. Mask RCNN can largely improve the efficiency by conducting person detection and pose estimation in a single framework, as the features provided by the backbone are able to be shared by the two tasks. However, the performance is not as good as traditional two-stage methods. In this paper, we aim to largely advance the human pose estimation results of Mask-RCNN and still keep the efficiency. Specifically, we make improvements on the whole process of pose estimation, which contains feature extraction and keypoint detection. The part of feature extraction is ensured to get enough and valuable information of pose. Then, we introduce a Global Context Module into the keypoints detection branch to enlarge the receptive field, as it is crucial to successful human pose estimation. On the COCO val2017 set, our model using the ResNet-50 backbone achieves an AP of 68.1, which is 2.6 higher than Mask RCNN (AP of 65.5). Compared to the classic two-stage top-down method SimpleBaseline, our model largely narrows the performance gap (68.1 AP vs. 68.9 AP) with a much faster inference speed (77 ms vs. 168 ms), demonstrating the effectiveness of the proposed method. Code is available at: https://github.com/lingl_space/maskrcnn_keypoint_refined.
Rethinking Rotation Invariance with Point Cloud Registration
Recent investigations on rotation invariance for 3D point clouds have been devoted to devising rotation-invariant feature descriptors or learning canonical spaces where objects are semantically aligned. Examinations of learning frameworks for invariance have seldom been looked into. In this work, we review rotation invariance in terms of point cloud registration and propose an effective framework for rotation invariance learning via three sequential stages, namely rotation-invariant shape encoding, aligned feature integration, and deep feature registration. We first encode shape descriptors constructed with respect to reference frames defined over different scales, e.g., local patches and global topology, to generate rotation-invariant latent shape codes. Within the integration stage, we propose Aligned Integration Transformer to produce a discriminative feature representation by integrating point-wise self- and cross-relations established within the shape codes. Meanwhile, we adopt rigid transformations between reference frames to align the shape codes for feature consistency across different scales. Finally, the deep integrated feature is registered to both rotation-invariant shape codes to maximize feature similarities, such that rotation invariance of the integrated feature is preserved and shared semantic information is implicitly extracted from shape codes. Experimental results on 3D shape classification, part segmentation, and retrieval tasks prove the feasibility of our work. Our project page is released at: https://rotation3d.github.io/.
Fruit Ripeness Classification: a Survey
Fruit is a key crop in worldwide agriculture feeding millions of people. The standard supply chain of fruit products involves quality checks to guarantee freshness, taste, and, most of all, safety. An important factor that determines fruit quality is its stage of ripening. This is usually manually classified by field experts, making it a labor-intensive and error-prone process. Thus, there is an arising need for automation in fruit ripeness classification. Many automatic methods have been proposed that employ a variety of feature descriptors for the food item to be graded. Machine learning and deep learning techniques dominate the top-performing methods. Furthermore, deep learning can operate on raw data and thus relieve the users from having to compute complex engineered features, which are often crop-specific. In this survey, we review the latest methods proposed in the literature to automatize fruit ripeness classification, highlighting the most common feature descriptors they operate on.
NeMo: 3D Neural Motion Fields from Multiple Video Instances of the Same Action
The task of reconstructing 3D human motion has wideranging applications. The gold standard Motion capture (MoCap) systems are accurate but inaccessible to the general public due to their cost, hardware and space constraints. In contrast, monocular human mesh recovery (HMR) methods are much more accessible than MoCap as they take single-view videos as inputs. Replacing the multi-view Mo- Cap systems with a monocular HMR method would break the current barriers to collecting accurate 3D motion thus making exciting applications like motion analysis and motiondriven animation accessible to the general public. However, performance of existing HMR methods degrade when the video contains challenging and dynamic motion that is not in existing MoCap datasets used for training. This reduces its appeal as dynamic motion is frequently the target in 3D motion recovery in the aforementioned applications. Our study aims to bridge the gap between monocular HMR and multi-view MoCap systems by leveraging information shared across multiple video instances of the same action. We introduce the Neural Motion (NeMo) field. It is optimized to represent the underlying 3D motions across a set of videos of the same action. Empirically, we show that NeMo can recover 3D motion in sports using videos from the Penn Action dataset, where NeMo outperforms existing HMR methods in terms of 2D keypoint detection. To further validate NeMo using 3D metrics, we collected a small MoCap dataset mimicking actions in Penn Action,and show that NeMo achieves better 3D reconstruction compared to various baselines.
HandsOff: Labeled Dataset Generation With No Additional Human Annotations
Recent work leverages the expressive power of generative adversarial networks (GANs) to generate labeled synthetic datasets. These dataset generation methods often require new annotations of synthetic images, which forces practitioners to seek out annotators, curate a set of synthetic images, and ensure the quality of generated labels. We introduce the HandsOff framework, a technique capable of producing an unlimited number of synthetic images and corresponding labels after being trained on less than 50 pre-existing labeled images. Our framework avoids the practical drawbacks of prior work by unifying the field of GAN inversion with dataset generation. We generate datasets with rich pixel-wise labels in multiple challenging domains such as faces, cars, full-body human poses, and urban driving scenes. Our method achieves state-of-the-art performance in semantic segmentation, keypoint detection, and depth estimation compared to prior dataset generation approaches and transfer learning baselines. We additionally showcase its ability to address broad challenges in model development which stem from fixed, hand-annotated datasets, such as the long-tail problem in semantic segmentation. Project page: austinxu87.github.io/handsoff.
Learning Markerless Robot-Depth Camera Calibration and End-Effector Pose Estimation
Traditional approaches to extrinsic calibration use fiducial markers and learning-based approaches rely heavily on simulation data. In this work, we present a learning-based markerless extrinsic calibration system that uses a depth camera and does not rely on simulation data. We learn models for end-effector (EE) segmentation, single-frame rotation prediction and keypoint detection, from automatically generated real-world data. We use a transformation trick to get EE pose estimates from rotation predictions and a matching algorithm to get EE pose estimates from keypoint predictions. We further utilize the iterative closest point algorithm, multiple-frames, filtering and outlier detection to increase calibration robustness. Our evaluations with training data from multiple camera poses and test data from previously unseen poses give sub-centimeter and sub-deciradian average calibration and pose estimation errors. We also show that a carefully selected single training pose gives comparable results.
Learning to Detect Good Keypoints to Match Non-Rigid Objects in RGB Images
We present a novel learned keypoint detection method designed to maximize the number of correct matches for the task of non-rigid image correspondence. Our training framework uses true correspondences, obtained by matching annotated image pairs with a predefined descriptor extractor, as a ground-truth to train a convolutional neural network (CNN). We optimize the model architecture by applying known geometric transformations to images as the supervisory signal. Experiments show that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art keypoint detector on real images of non-rigid objects by 20 p.p. on Mean Matching Accuracy and also improves the matching performance of several descriptors when coupled with our detection method. We also employ the proposed method in one challenging realworld application: object retrieval, where our detector exhibits performance on par with the best available keypoint detectors. The source code and trained model are publicly available at https://github.com/verlab/LearningToDetect SIBGRAPI 2022
DDM-NET: End-to-end learning of keypoint feature Detection, Description and Matching for 3D localization
In this paper, we propose an end-to-end framework that jointly learns keypoint detection, descriptor representation and cross-frame matching for the task of image-based 3D localization. Prior art has tackled each of these components individually, purportedly aiming to alleviate difficulties in effectively train a holistic network. We design a self-supervised image warping correspondence loss for both feature detection and matching, a weakly-supervised epipolar constraints loss on relative camera pose learning, and a directional matching scheme that detects key-point features in a source image and performs coarse-to-fine correspondence search on the target image. We leverage this framework to enforce cycle consistency in our matching module. In addition, we propose a new loss to robustly handle both definite inlier/outlier matches and less-certain matches. The integration of these learning mechanisms enables end-to-end training of a single network performing all three localization components. Bench-marking our approach on public data-sets, exemplifies how such an end-to-end framework is able to yield more accurate localization that out-performs both traditional methods as well as state-of-the-art weakly supervised methods.
Designing Feature Vector Representations: A case study from Chemistry
We present a case study investigating feature descriptors in the context of the analysis of chemical multivariate ensemble data. The data of each ensemble member consists of three parts: the design parameters for each ensemble member, field data resulting from the numerical simulations, and physical properties of the molecules. Since feature-based methods have the potential to reduce the data complexity and facilitate comparison and clustering, we are focusing on such methods. However, there are many options to design the feature vector representation and there is no obvious preference. To get a better understanding of the different representations, we analyze their similarities and differences. Thereby, we focus on three characteristics derived from the representations: the distribution of pairwise distances, the clustering tendency, and the rank-order of the pairwise distances. The results of our investigations partially confirmed expected behavior, but also provided some surprising observations that can be used for the future development of feature representations in the chemical domain.
ViTPose+: Vision Transformer Foundation Model for Generic Body Pose Estimation
In this paper, we show the surprisingly good properties of plain vision transformers for body pose estimation from various aspects, namely simplicity in model structure, scalability in model size, flexibility in training paradigm, and transferability of knowledge between models, through a simple baseline model dubbed ViTPose. Specifically, ViTPose employs the plain and non-hierarchical vision transformer as an encoder to encode features and a lightweight decoder to decode body keypoints in either a top-down or a bottom-up manner. It can be scaled up from about 20M to 1B parameters by taking advantage of the scalable model capacity and high parallelism of the vision transformer, setting a new Pareto front for throughput and performance. Besides, ViTPose is very flexible regarding the attention type, input resolution, and pre-training and fine-tuning strategy. Based on the flexibility, a novel ViTPose+ model is proposed to deal with heterogeneous body keypoint categories in different types of body pose estimation tasks via knowledge factorization, i.e., adopting task-agnostic and task-specific feed-forward networks in the transformer. We also empirically demonstrate that the knowledge of large ViTPose models can be easily transferred to small ones via a simple knowledge token. Experimental results show that our ViTPose model outperforms representative methods on the challenging MS COCO Human Keypoint Detection benchmark at both top-down and bottom-up settings. Furthermore, our ViTPose+ model achieves state-of-the-art performance simultaneously on a series of body pose estimation tasks, including MS COCO, AI Challenger, OCHuman, MPII for human keypoint detection, COCO-Wholebody for whole-body keypoint detection, as well as AP-10K and APT-36K for animal keypoint detection, without sacrificing inference speed.
DiffuPose: Monocular 3D Human Pose Estimation via Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Model
Thanks to the development of 2D keypoint detectors, monocular 3D human pose estimation (HPE) via 2D-to-3D uplifting approaches have achieved remarkable improvements. Still, monocular 3D HPE is a challenging problem due to the inherent depth ambiguities and occlusions. To handle this problem, many previous works exploit temporal information to mitigate such difficulties. However, there are many real-world applications where frame sequences are not accessible. This paper focuses on reconstructing a 3D pose from a single 2D keypoint detection. Rather than exploiting temporal information, we alleviate the depth ambiguity by generating multiple 3D pose candidates which can be mapped to an identical 2D keypoint. We build a novel diffusion-based framework to effectively sample diverse 3D poses from an off-the-shelf 2D detector. By considering the correlation between human joints by replacing the conventional denoising U-Net with graph convolutional network, our approach accomplishes further performance improvements. We evaluate our method on the widely adopted Human3.6M and HumanEva-I datasets. Comprehensive experiments are conducted to prove the efficacy of the proposed method, and they confirm that our model outperforms state-of-the-art multi-hypothesis 3D HPE methods.
R2FD2: Fast and Robust Matching of Multimodal Remote Sensing Image via Repeatable Feature Detector and Rotation-invariant Feature Descriptor
Automatically identifying feature correspondences between multimodal images is facing enormous challenges because of the significant differences both in radiation and geometry. To address these problems, we propose a novel feature matching method (named R2FD2) that is robust to radiation and rotation differences. Our R2FD2 is conducted in two critical contributions, consisting of a repeatable feature detector and a rotation-invariant feature descriptor. In the first stage, a repeatable feature detector called the Multi-channel Auto-correlation of the Log-Gabor (MALG) is presented for feature detection, which combines the multi-channel auto-correlation strategy with the Log-Gabor wavelets to detect interest points (IPs) with high repeatability and uniform distribution. In the second stage, a rotation-invariant feature descriptor is constructed, named the Rotation-invariant Maximum index map of the Log-Gabor (RMLG), which consists of two components: fast assignment of dominant orientation and construction of feature representation. In the process of fast assignment of dominant orientation, a Rotation-invariant Maximum Index Map (RMIM) is built to address rotation deformations. Then, the proposed RMLG incorporates the rotation-invariant RMIM with the spatial configuration of DAISY to depict a more discriminative feature representation, which improves RMLG's resistance to radiation and rotation variances.Experimental results show that the proposed R2FD2 outperforms five state-of-the-art feature matching methods, and has superior advantages in adaptability and universality. Moreover, our R2FD2 achieves the accuracy of matching within two pixels and has a great advantage in matching efficiency over other state-of-the-art methods.
FeatureBooster: Boosting Feature Descriptors with a Lightweight Neural Network
We introduce a lightweight network to improve descriptors of keypoints within the same image. The network takes the original descriptors and the geometric properties of keypoints as the input, and uses an MLP-based self-boosting stage and a Transformer-based cross-boosting stage to enhance the descriptors. The boosted descriptors can be either real-valued or binary ones. We use the proposed network to boost both hand-crafted (ORB, SIFT) and the state-of-the-art learning-based descriptors (SuperPoint, ALIKE) and evaluate them on image matching, visual localization, and structure-from-motion tasks. The results show that our method significantly improves the performance of each task, particularly in challenging cases such as large illumination changes or repetitive patterns. Our method requires only 3.2ms on desktop GPU and 27ms on embedded GPU to process 2000 features, which is fast enough to be applied to a practical system. The code and trained weights are publicly available at github.com/SJTU-ViSYS/FeatureBooster.
BALF: Simple and Efficient Blur Aware Local Feature Detector
Local feature detection is a key ingredient of many image processing and computer vision applications, such as visual odometry and localization. Most existing algorithms focus on feature detection from a sharp image. They would thus have degraded performance once the image is blurred, which could happen easily under low-lighting conditions. To address this issue, we propose a simple yet both efficient and effective keypoint detection method that is able to accurately localize the salient keypoints in a blurred image. Our method takes advantages of a novel multi-layer perceptron (MLP) based architecture that significantly improve the detection repeatability for a blurred image. The network is also light-weight and able to run in real-time, which enables its deployment for time-constrained applications. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that our detector is able to improve the detection repeatability with blurred images, while keeping comparable performance as existing state-of-the-art detectors for sharp images.
Conjugate Product Graphs for Globally Optimal 2D-3D Shape Matching
We consider the problem of finding a continuous and non-rigid matching between a 2D contour and a 3D mesh. While such problems can be solved to global optimality by finding a shortest path in the product graph between both shapes, existing solutions heavily rely on unrealistic prior assumptions to avoid degenerate solutions (e.g. knowledge to which region of the 3D shape each point of the 2D contour is matched). To address this, we propose a novel 2D-3D shape matching formalism based on the conjugate product graph between the 2D contour and the 3D shape. Doing so allows us for the first time to consider higher-order costs, i.e. defined for edge chains, as opposed to costs defined for single edges. This offers substantially more flexibility, which we utilise to incorporate a local rigidity prior. By doing so, we effectively circumvent degenerate solutions and thereby obtain smoother and more realistic matchings, even when using only a one-dimensional feature descriptor. Overall, our method finds globally optimal and continuous 2D-3D matchings, has the same asymptotic complexity as previous solutions, produces state-of-the-art results for shape matching and is even capable of matching partial shapes. Our code is publicly available (https://github.com/paul0noah/sm-2D3D).
Learning Feature Descriptors for Pre- and Intra-operative Point Cloud Matching for Laparoscopic Liver Registration
Purpose: In laparoscopic liver surgery (LLS), pre-operative information can be overlaid onto the intra-operative scene by registering a 3D pre-operative model to the intra-operative partial surface reconstructed from the laparoscopic video. To assist with this task, we explore the use of learning-based feature descriptors, which, to our best knowledge, have not been explored for use in laparoscopic liver registration. Furthermore, a dataset to train and evaluate the use of learning-based descriptors does not exist.   Methods: We present the LiverMatch dataset consisting of 16 preoperative models and their simulated intra-operative 3D surfaces. We also propose the LiverMatch network designed for this task, which outputs per-point feature descriptors, visibility scores, and matched points.   Results: We compare the proposed LiverMatch network with anetwork closest to LiverMatch, and a histogram-based 3D descriptor on the testing split of the LiverMatch dataset, which includes two unseen pre-operative models and 1400 intra-operative surfaces. Results suggest that our LiverMatch network can predict more accurate and dense matches than the other two methods and can be seamlessly integrated with a RANSAC-ICP-based registration algorithm to achieve an accurate initial alignment.   Conclusion: The use of learning-based feature descriptors in LLR is promising, as it can help achieve an accurate initial rigid alignment, which, in turn, serves as an initialization for subsequent non-rigid registration. We will release the dataset and code upon acceptance.
Tree Detection and Diameter Estimation Based on Deep Learning
Tree perception is an essential building block toward autonomous forestry operations. Current developments generally consider input data from lidar sensors to solve forest navigation, tree detection and diameter estimation problems. Whereas cameras paired with deep learning algorithms usually address species classification or forest anomaly detection. In either of these cases, data unavailability and forest diversity restrain deep learning developments for autonomous systems. So, we propose two densely annotated image datasets - 43k synthetic, 100 real - for bounding box, segmentation mask and keypoint detections to assess the potential of vision-based methods. Deep neural network models trained on our datasets achieve a precision of 90.4% for tree detection, 87.2% for tree segmentation, and centimeter accurate keypoint estimations. We measure our models' generalizability when testing it on other forest datasets, and their scalability with different dataset sizes and architectural improvements. Overall, the experimental results offer promising avenues toward autonomous tree felling operations and other applied forestry problems. The datasets and pre-trained models in this article are publicly available on \href{https://github.com/norlab-ulaval/PercepTreeV1}{GitHub} (https://github.com/norlab-ulaval/PercepTreeV1).
Learning a Task-specific Descriptor for Robust Matching of 3D Point Clouds
Existing learning-based point feature descriptors are usually task-agnostic, which pursue describing the individual 3D point clouds as accurate as possible. However, the matching task aims at describing the corresponding points consistently across different 3D point clouds. Therefore these too accurate features may play a counterproductive role due to the inconsistent point feature representations of correspondences caused by the unpredictable noise, partiality, deformation, \etc, in the local geometry. In this paper, we propose to learn a robust task-specific feature descriptor to consistently describe the correct point correspondence under interference. Born with an Encoder and a Dynamic Fusion module, our method EDFNet develops from two aspects. First, we augment the matchability of correspondences by utilizing their repetitive local structure. To this end, a special encoder is designed to exploit two input point clouds jointly for each point descriptor. It not only captures the local geometry of each point in the current point cloud by convolution, but also exploits the repetitive structure from paired point cloud by Transformer. Second, we propose a dynamical fusion module to jointly use different scale features. There is an inevitable struggle between robustness and discriminativeness of the single scale feature. Specifically, the small scale feature is robust since little interference exists in this small receptive field. But it is not sufficiently discriminative as there are many repetitive local structures within a point cloud. Thus the resultant descriptors will lead to many incorrect matches. In contrast, the large scale feature is more discriminative by integrating more neighborhood information. ...
Few-Shot Meta Learning for Recognizing Facial Phenotypes of Genetic Disorders
Computer vision-based methods have valuable use cases in precision medicine, and recognizing facial phenotypes of genetic disorders is one of them. Many genetic disorders are known to affect faces' visual appearance and geometry. Automated classification and similarity retrieval aid physicians in decision-making to diagnose possible genetic conditions as early as possible. Previous work has addressed the problem as a classification problem and used deep learning methods. The challenging issue in practice is the sparse label distribution and huge class imbalances across categories. Furthermore, most disorders have few labeled samples in training sets, making representation learning and generalization essential to acquiring a reliable feature descriptor. In this study, we used a facial recognition model trained on a large corpus of healthy individuals as a pre-task and transferred it to facial phenotype recognition. Furthermore, we created simple baselines of few-shot meta-learning methods to improve our base feature descriptor. Our quantitative results on GestaltMatcher Database show that our CNN baseline surpasses previous works, including GestaltMatcher, and few-shot meta-learning strategies improve retrieval performance in frequent and rare classes.
Real-time Detection of 2D Tool Landmarks with Synthetic Training Data
In this paper a deep learning architecture is presented that can, in real time, detect the 2D locations of certain landmarks of physical tools, such as a hammer or screwdriver. To avoid the labor of manual labeling, the network is trained on synthetically generated data. Training computer vision models on computer generated images, while still achieving good accuracy on real images, is a challenge due to the difference in domain. The proposed method uses an advanced rendering method in combination with transfer learning and an intermediate supervision architecture to address this problem. It is shown that the model presented in this paper, named Intermediate Heatmap Model (IHM), generalizes to real images when trained on synthetic data. To avoid the need for an exact textured 3D model of the tool in question, it is shown that the model will generalize to an unseen tool when trained on a set of different 3D models of the same type of tool. IHM is compared to two existing approaches to keypoint detection and it is shown that it outperforms those at detecting tool landmarks, trained on synthetic data.
Fusing Event-based Camera and Radar for SLAM Using Spiking Neural Networks with Continual STDP Learning
This work proposes a first-of-its-kind SLAM architecture fusing an event-based camera and a Frequency Modulated Continuous Wave (FMCW) radar for drone navigation. Each sensor is processed by a bio-inspired Spiking Neural Network (SNN) with continual Spike-Timing-Dependent Plasticity (STDP) learning, as observed in the brain. In contrast to most learning-based SLAM systems%, which a) require the acquisition of a representative dataset of the environment in which navigation must be performed and b) require an off-line training phase, our method does not require any offline training phase, but rather the SNN continuously learns features from the input data on the fly via STDP. At the same time, the SNN outputs are used as feature descriptors for loop closure detection and map correction. We conduct numerous experiments to benchmark our system against state-of-the-art RGB methods and we demonstrate the robustness of our DVS-Radar SLAM approach under strong lighting variations.
Centroid Distance Keypoint Detector for Colored Point Clouds
Keypoint detection serves as the basis for many computer vision and robotics applications. Despite the fact that colored point clouds can be readily obtained, most existing keypoint detectors extract only geometry-salient keypoints, which can impede the overall performance of systems that intend to (or have the potential to) leverage color information. To promote advances in such systems, we propose an efficient multi-modal keypoint detector that can extract both geometry-salient and color-salient keypoints in colored point clouds. The proposed CEntroid Distance (CED) keypoint detector comprises an intuitive and effective saliency measure, the centroid distance, that can be used in both 3D space and color space, and a multi-modal non-maximum suppression algorithm that can select keypoints with high saliency in two or more modalities. The proposed saliency measure leverages directly the distribution of points in a local neighborhood and does not require normal estimation or eigenvalue decomposition. We evaluate the proposed method in terms of repeatability and computational efficiency (i.e. running time) against state-of-the-art keypoint detectors on both synthetic and real-world datasets. Results demonstrate that our proposed CED keypoint detector requires minimal computational time while attaining high repeatability. To showcase one of the potential applications of the proposed method, we further investigate the task of colored point cloud registration. Results suggest that our proposed CED detector outperforms state-of-the-art handcrafted and learning-based keypoint detectors in the evaluated scenes. The C++ implementation of the proposed method is made publicly available at https://github.com/UCR-Robotics/CED_Detector.
Category-Level Global Camera Pose Estimation with Multi-Hypothesis Point Cloud Correspondences
Correspondence search is an essential step in rigid point cloud registration algorithms. Most methods maintain a single correspondence at each step and gradually remove wrong correspondances. However, building one-to-one correspondence with hard assignments is extremely difficult, especially when matching two point clouds with many locally similar features. This paper proposes an optimization method that retains all possible correspondences for each keypoint when matching a partial point cloud to a complete point cloud. These uncertain correspondences are then gradually updated with the estimated rigid transformation by considering the matching cost. Moreover, we propose a new point feature descriptor that measures the similarity between local point cloud regions. Extensive experiments show that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art (SoTA) methods even when matching different objects within the same category. Notably, our method outperforms the SoTA methods when registering real-world noisy depth images to a template shape by up to 20% performance.
USEEK: Unsupervised SE(3)-Equivariant 3D Keypoints for Generalizable Manipulation
Can a robot manipulate intra-category unseen objects in arbitrary poses with the help of a mere demonstration of grasping pose on a single object instance? In this paper, we try to address this intriguing challenge by using USEEK, an unsupervised SE(3)-equivariant keypoints method that enjoys alignment across instances in a category, to perform generalizable manipulation. USEEK follows a teacher-student structure to decouple the unsupervised keypoint discovery and SE(3)-equivariant keypoint detection. With USEEK in hand, the robot can infer the category-level task-relevant object frames in an efficient and explainable manner, enabling manipulation of any intra-category objects from and to any poses. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate that the keypoints produced by USEEK possess rich semantics, thus successfully transferring the functional knowledge from the demonstration object to the novel ones. Compared with other object representations for manipulation, USEEK is more adaptive in the face of large intra-category shape variance, more robust with limited demonstrations, and more efficient at inference time.
Suture Thread Spline Reconstruction from Endoscopic Images for Robotic Surgery with Reliability-driven Keypoint Detection
Automating the process of manipulating and delivering sutures during robotic surgery is a prominent problem at the frontier of surgical robotics, as automating this task can significantly reduce surgeons' fatigue during tele-operated surgery and allow them to spend more time addressing higher-level clinical decision making. Accomplishing autonomous suturing and suture manipulation in the real world requires accurate suture thread localization and reconstruction, the process of creating a 3D shape representation of suture thread from 2D stereo camera surgical image pairs. This is a very challenging problem due to how limited pixel information is available for the threads, as well as their sensitivity to lighting and specular reflection. We present a suture thread reconstruction work that uses reliable keypoints and a Minimum Variation Spline (MVS) smoothing optimization to construct a 3D centerline from a segmented surgical image pair. This method is comparable to previous suture thread reconstruction works, with the possible benefit of increased accuracy of grasping point estimation. Our code and datasets will be available at: https://github.com/ucsdarclab/thread-reconstruction.
Learning-Based Dimensionality Reduction for Computing Compact and Effective Local Feature Descriptors
A distinctive representation of image patches in form of features is a key component of many computer vision and robotics tasks, such as image matching, image retrieval, and visual localization. State-of-the-art descriptors, from hand-crafted descriptors such as SIFT to learned ones such as HardNet, are usually high dimensional; 128 dimensions or even more. The higher the dimensionality, the larger the memory consumption and computational time for approaches using such descriptors. In this paper, we investigate multi-layer perceptrons (MLPs) to extract low-dimensional but high-quality descriptors. We thoroughly analyze our method in unsupervised, self-supervised, and supervised settings, and evaluate the dimensionality reduction results on four representative descriptors. We consider different applications, including visual localization, patch verification, image matching and retrieval. The experiments show that our lightweight MLPs achieve better dimensionality reduction than PCA. The lower-dimensional descriptors generated by our approach outperform the original higher-dimensional descriptors in downstream tasks, especially for the hand-crafted ones. The code will be available at https://github.com/PRBonn/descriptor-dr.
Performance Evaluation of 3D Keypoint Detectors and Descriptors on Coloured Point Clouds in Subsea Environments
The recent development of high-precision subsea optical scanners allows for 3D keypoint detectors and feature descriptors to be leveraged on point cloud scans from subsea environments. However, the literature lacks a comprehensive survey to identify the best combination of detectors and descriptors to be used in these challenging and novel environments. This paper aims to identify the best detector/descriptor pair using a challenging field dataset collected using a commercial underwater laser scanner. Furthermore, studies have shown that incorporating texture information to extend geometric features adds robustness to feature matching on synthetic datasets. This paper also proposes a novel method of fusing images with underwater laser scans to produce coloured point clouds, which are used to study the effectiveness of 6D point cloud descriptors.
DRKF: Distilled Rotated Kernel Fusion for Efficient Rotation Invariant Descriptors in Local Feature Matching
The performance of local feature descriptors degrades in the presence of large rotation variations. To address this issue, we present an efficient approach to learning rotation invariant descriptors. Specifically, we propose Rotated Kernel Fusion (RKF) which imposes rotations on each convolution kernel and improves the inherent nature of CNN. Since RKF can be processed by the subsequent re-parameterization, no extra computational costs will be introduced in the inference stage. Moreover, we present Multi-oriented Feature Aggregation (MOFA) which ensembles features extracted from multiple rotated versions of input images and can provide auxiliary information for the training of RKF by leveraging the knowledge distillation strategy. We refer to the distilled RKF model as DRKF. Besides the evaluation on a rotation-augmented version of the public dataset HPatches, we also contribute a new dataset named DiverseBEV which consists of bird's eye view images with large viewpoint changes and camera rotations. Extensive experiments show that our method can outperform other state-of-the-art techniques when exposed to large rotation variations.
Long-Lived Accurate Keypoints in Event Streams
We present a novel end-to-end approach to keypoint detection and tracking in an event stream that provides better precision and much longer keypoint tracks than previous methods. This is made possible by two contributions working together.   First, we propose a simple procedure to generate stable keypoint labels, which we use to train a recurrent architecture. This training data results in detections that are very consistent over time.   Moreover, we observe that previous methods for keypoint detection work on a representation (such as the time surface) that integrates events over a period of time. Since this integration is required, we claim it is better to predict the keypoints' trajectories for the time period rather than single locations, as done in previous approaches. We predict these trajectories in the form of a series of heatmaps for the integration time period. This improves the keypoint localization.   Our architecture can also be kept very simple, which results in very fast inference times. We demonstrate our approach on the HVGA ATIS Corner dataset as well as "The Event-Camera Dataset and Simulator" dataset, and show it results in keypoint tracks that are three times longer and nearly twice as accurate as the best previous state-of-the-art methods. We believe our approach can be generalized to other event-based camera problems, and we release our source code to encourage other authors to explore it.
Integrative Feature and Cost Aggregation with Transformers for Dense Correspondence
We present a novel architecture for dense correspondence. The current state-of-the-art are Transformer-based approaches that focus on either feature descriptors or cost volume aggregation. However, they generally aggregate one or the other but not both, though joint aggregation would boost each other by providing information that one has but other lacks, i.e., structural or semantic information of an image, or pixel-wise matching similarity. In this work, we propose a novel Transformer-based network that interleaves both forms of aggregations in a way that exploits their complementary information. Specifically, we design a self-attention layer that leverages the descriptor to disambiguate the noisy cost volume and that also utilizes the cost volume to aggregate features in a manner that promotes accurate matching. A subsequent cross-attention layer performs further aggregation conditioned on the descriptors of both images and aided by the aggregated outputs of earlier layers. We further boost the performance with hierarchical processing, in which coarser level aggregations guide those at finer levels. We evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed method on dense matching tasks and achieve state-of-the-art performance on all the major benchmarks. Extensive ablation studies are also provided to validate our design choices.
Online Marker-free Extrinsic Camera Calibration using Person Keypoint Detections
Calibration of multi-camera systems, i.e. determining the relative poses between the cameras, is a prerequisite for many tasks in computer vision and robotics. Camera calibration is typically achieved using offline methods that use checkerboard calibration targets. These methods, however, often are cumbersome and lengthy, considering that a new calibration is required each time any camera pose changes. In this work, we propose a novel, marker-free online method for the extrinsic calibration of multiple smart edge sensors, relying solely on 2D human keypoint detections that are computed locally on the sensor boards from RGB camera images. Our method assumes the intrinsic camera parameters to be known and requires priming with a rough initial estimate of the camera poses. The person keypoint detections from multiple views are received at a central backend where they are synchronized, filtered, and assigned to person hypotheses. We use these person hypotheses to repeatedly solve optimization problems in the form of factor graphs. Given suitable observations of one or multiple persons traversing the scene, the estimated camera poses converge towards a coherent extrinsic calibration within a few minutes. We evaluate our approach in real-world settings and show that the calibration with our method achieves lower reprojection errors compared to a reference calibration generated by an offline method using a traditional calibration target.
Deep Learning-Based Automatic Diagnosis System for Developmental Dysplasia of the Hip
As the first-line diagnostic imaging modality, radiography plays an essential role in the early detection of developmental dysplasia of the hip (DDH). Clinically, the diagnosis of DDH relies on manual measurements and subjective evaluation of different anatomical features from pelvic radiographs. This process is inefficient and error-prone and requires years of clinical experience. In this study, we propose a deep learning-based system that automatically detects 14 keypoints from a radiograph, measures three anatomical angles (center-edge, T\"onnis, and Sharp angles), and classifies DDH hips as grades I-IV based on the Crowe criteria. Moreover, a novel data-driven scoring system is proposed to quantitatively integrate the information from the three angles for DDH diagnosis. The proposed keypoint detection model achieved a mean (95% confidence interval [CI]) average precision of 0.807 (0.804-0.810). The mean (95% CI) intraclass correlation coefficients between the center-edge, Tonnis, and Sharp angles measured by the proposed model and the ground-truth were 0.957 (0.952-0.962), 0.947 (0.941-0.953), and 0.953 (0.947-0.960), respectively, which were significantly higher than those of experienced orthopedic surgeons (p<0.0001). In addition, the mean (95% CI) test diagnostic agreement (Cohen's kappa) obtained using the proposed scoring system was 0.84 (0.83-0.85), which was significantly higher than those obtained from diagnostic criteria for individual angle (0.76 [0.75-0.77]) and orthopedists (0.71 [0.63-0.79]). To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study for objective DDH diagnosis by leveraging deep learning keypoint detection and integrating different anatomical measurements, which can provide reliable and explainable support for clinical decision-making.
Learning to SLAM on the Fly in Unknown Environments: A Continual Learning Approach for Drones in Visually Ambiguous Scenes
Learning to safely navigate in unknown environments is an important task for autonomous drones used in surveillance and rescue operations. In recent years, a number of learning-based Simultaneous Localisation and Mapping (SLAM) systems relying on deep neural networks (DNNs) have been proposed for applications where conventional feature descriptors do not perform well. However, such learning-based SLAM systems rely on DNN feature encoders trained offline in typical deep learning settings. This makes them less suited for drones deployed in environments unseen during training, where continual adaptation is paramount. In this paper, we present a new method for learning to SLAM on the fly in unknown environments, by modulating a low-complexity Dictionary Learning and Sparse Coding (DLSC) pipeline with a newly proposed Quadratic Bayesian Surprise (QBS) factor. We experimentally validate our approach with data collected by a drone in a challenging warehouse scenario, where the high number of ambiguous scenes makes visual disambiguation hard.
Self-Supervised Endoscopic Image Key-Points Matching
Feature matching and finding correspondences between endoscopic images is a key step in many clinical applications such as patient follow-up and generation of panoramic image from clinical sequences for fast anomalies localization. Nonetheless, due to the high texture variability present in endoscopic images, the development of robust and accurate feature matching becomes a challenging task. Recently, deep learning techniques which deliver learned features extracted via convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have gained traction in a wide range of computer vision tasks. However, they all follow a supervised learning scheme where a large amount of annotated data is required to reach good performances, which is generally not always available for medical data databases. To overcome this limitation related to labeled data scarcity, the self-supervised learning paradigm has recently shown great success in a number of applications. This paper proposes a novel self-supervised approach for endoscopic image matching based on deep learning techniques. When compared to standard hand-crafted local feature descriptors, our method outperformed them in terms of precision and recall. Furthermore, our self-supervised descriptor provides a competitive performance in comparison to a selection of state-of-the-art deep learning based supervised methods in terms of precision and matching score.
Blind-Spot Collision Detection System for Commercial Vehicles Using Multi Deep CNN Architecture
Buses and heavy vehicles have more blind spots compared to cars and other road vehicles due to their large sizes. Therefore, accidents caused by these heavy vehicles are more fatal and result in severe injuries to other road users. These possible blind-spot collisions can be identified early using vision-based object detection approaches. Yet, the existing state-of-the-art vision-based object detection models rely heavily on a single feature descriptor for making decisions. In this research, the design of two convolutional neural networks (CNNs) based on high-level feature descriptors and their integration with faster R-CNN is proposed to detect blind-spot collisions for heavy vehicles. Moreover, a fusion approach is proposed to integrate two pre-trained networks (i.e., Resnet 50 and Resnet 101) for extracting high level features for blind-spot vehicle detection. The fusion of features significantly improves the performance of faster R-CNN and outperformed the existing state-of-the-art methods. Both approaches are validated on a self-recorded blind-spot vehicle detection dataset for buses and an online LISA dataset for vehicle detection. For both proposed approaches, a false detection rate (FDR) of 3.05% and 3.49% are obtained for the self recorded dataset, making these approaches suitable for real time applications.
MetaGraspNet: A Large-Scale Benchmark Dataset for Scene-Aware Ambidextrous Bin Picking via Physics-based Metaverse Synthesis
Autonomous bin picking poses significant challenges to vision-driven robotic systems given the complexity of the problem, ranging from various sensor modalities, to highly entangled object layouts, to diverse item properties and gripper types. Existing methods often address the problem from one perspective. Diverse items and complex bin scenes require diverse picking strategies together with advanced reasoning. As such, to build robust and effective machine-learning algorithms for solving this complex task requires significant amounts of comprehensive and high quality data. Collecting such data in real world would be too expensive and time prohibitive and therefore intractable from a scalability perspective. To tackle this big, diverse data problem, we take inspiration from the recent rise in the concept of metaverses, and introduce MetaGraspNet, a large-scale photo-realistic bin picking dataset constructed via physics-based metaverse synthesis. The proposed dataset contains 217k RGBD images across 82 different article types, with full annotations for object detection, amodal perception, keypoint detection, manipulation order and ambidextrous grasp labels for a parallel-jaw and vacuum gripper. We also provide a real dataset consisting of over 2.3k fully annotated high-quality RGBD images, divided into 5 levels of difficulties and an unseen object set to evaluate different object and layout properties. Finally, we conduct extensive experiments showing that our proposed vacuum seal model and synthetic dataset achieves state-of-the-art performance and generalizes to real world use-cases.
CVLNet: Cross-View Semantic Correspondence Learning for Video-based Camera Localization
This paper tackles the problem of Cross-view Video-based camera Localization (CVL). The task is to localize a query camera by leveraging information from its past observations, i.e., a continuous sequence of images observed at previous time stamps, and matching them to a large overhead-view satellite image. The critical challenge of this task is to learn a powerful global feature descriptor for the sequential ground-view images while considering its domain alignment with reference satellite images. For this purpose, we introduce CVLNet, which first projects the sequential ground-view images into an overhead view by exploring the ground-and-overhead geometric correspondences and then leverages the photo consistency among the projected images to form a global representation. In this way, the cross-view domain differences are bridged. Since the reference satellite images are usually pre-cropped and regularly sampled, there is always a misalignment between the query camera location and its matching satellite image center. Motivated by this, we propose estimating the query camera's relative displacement to a satellite image before similarity matching. In this displacement estimation process, we also consider the uncertainty of the camera location. For example, a camera is unlikely to be on top of trees. To evaluate the performance of the proposed method, we collect satellite images from Google Map for the KITTI dataset and construct a new cross-view video-based localization benchmark dataset, KITTI-CVL. Extensive experiments have demonstrated the effectiveness of video-based localization over single image-based localization and the superiority of each proposed module over other alternatives.
Explicit Occlusion Reasoning for Multi-person 3D Human Pose Estimation
Occlusion poses a great threat to monocular multi-person 3D human pose estimation due to large variability in terms of the shape, appearance, and position of occluders. While existing methods try to handle occlusion with pose priors/constraints, data augmentation, or implicit reasoning, they still fail to generalize to unseen poses or occlusion cases and may make large mistakes when multiple people are present. Inspired by the remarkable ability of humans to infer occluded joints from visible cues, we develop a method to explicitly model this process that significantly improves bottom-up multi-person human pose estimation with or without occlusions. First, we split the task into two subtasks: visible keypoints detection and occluded keypoints reasoning, and propose a Deeply Supervised Encoder Distillation (DSED) network to solve the second one. To train our model, we propose a Skeleton-guided human Shape Fitting (SSF) approach to generate pseudo occlusion labels on the existing datasets, enabling explicit occlusion reasoning. Experiments show that explicitly learning from occlusions improves human pose estimation. In addition, exploiting feature-level information of visible joints allows us to reason about occluded joints more accurately. Our method outperforms both the state-of-the-art top-down and bottom-up methods on several benchmarks.
Translating a Visual LEGO Manual to a Machine-Executable Plan
We study the problem of translating an image-based, step-by-step assembly manual created by human designers into machine-interpretable instructions. We formulate this problem as a sequential prediction task: at each step, our model reads the manual, locates the components to be added to the current shape, and infers their 3D poses. This task poses the challenge of establishing a 2D-3D correspondence between the manual image and the real 3D object, and 3D pose estimation for unseen 3D objects, since a new component to be added in a step can be an object built from previous steps. To address these two challenges, we present a novel learning-based framework, the Manual-to-Executable-Plan Network (MEPNet), which reconstructs the assembly steps from a sequence of manual images. The key idea is to integrate neural 2D keypoint detection modules and 2D-3D projection algorithms for high-precision prediction and strong generalization to unseen components. The MEPNet outperforms existing methods on three newly collected LEGO manual datasets and a Minecraft house dataset.
Multi-modal Retinal Image Registration Using a Keypoint-Based Vessel Structure Aligning Network
In ophthalmological imaging, multiple imaging systems, such as color fundus, infrared, fluorescein angiography, optical coherence tomography (OCT) or OCT angiography, are often involved to make a diagnosis of retinal disease. Multi-modal retinal registration techniques can assist ophthalmologists by providing a pixel-based comparison of aligned vessel structures in images from different modalities or acquisition times. To this end, we propose an end-to-end trainable deep learning method for multi-modal retinal image registration. Our method extracts convolutional features from the vessel structure for keypoint detection and description and uses a graph neural network for feature matching. The keypoint detection and description network and graph neural network are jointly trained in a self-supervised manner using synthetic multi-modal image pairs and are guided by synthetically sampled ground truth homographies. Our method demonstrates higher registration accuracy as competing methods for our synthetic retinal dataset and generalizes well for our real macula dataset and a public fundus dataset.
Human keypoint detection for close proximity human-robot interaction
We study the performance of state-of-the-art human keypoint detectors in the context of close proximity human-robot interaction. The detection in this scenario is specific in that only a subset of body parts such as hands and torso are in the field of view. In particular, (i) we survey existing datasets with human pose annotation from the perspective of close proximity images and prepare and make publicly available a new Human in Close Proximity (HiCP) dataset; (ii) we quantitatively and qualitatively compare state-of-the-art human whole-body 2D keypoint detection methods (OpenPose, MMPose, AlphaPose, Detectron2) on this dataset; (iii) since accurate detection of hands and fingers is critical in applications with handovers, we evaluate the performance of the MediaPipe hand detector; (iv) we deploy the algorithms on a humanoid robot with an RGB-D camera on its head and evaluate the performance in 3D human keypoint detection. A motion capture system is used as reference.   The best performing whole-body keypoint detectors in close proximity were MMPose and AlphaPose, but both had difficulty with finger detection. Thus, we propose a combination of MMPose or AlphaPose for the body and MediaPipe for the hands in a single framework providing the most accurate and robust detection. We also analyse the failure modes of individual detectors -- for example, to what extent the absence of the head of the person in the image degrades performance. Finally, we demonstrate the framework in a scenario where a humanoid robot interacting with a person uses the detected 3D keypoints for whole-body avoidance maneuvers.
Adversarial Focal Loss: Asking Your Discriminator for Hard Examples
Focal Loss has reached incredible popularity as it uses a simple technique to identify and utilize hard examples to achieve better performance on classification. However, this method does not easily generalize outside of classification tasks, such as in keypoint detection. In this paper, we propose a novel adaptation of Focal Loss for keypoint detection tasks, called Adversarial Focal Loss (AFL). AFL not only is semantically analogous to Focal loss, but also works as a plug-and-chug upgrade for arbitrary loss functions. While Focal Loss requires output from a classifier, AFL leverages a separate adversarial network to produce a difficulty score for each input. This difficulty score can then be used to dynamically prioritize learning on hard examples, even in absence of a classifier. In this work, we show AFL's effectiveness in enhancing existing methods in keypoint detection and verify its capability to re-weigh examples based on difficulty.
Rapid Person Re-Identification via Sub-space Consistency Regularization
Person Re-Identification (ReID) matches pedestrians across disjoint cameras. Existing ReID methods adopting real-value feature descriptors have achieved high accuracy, but they are low in efficiency due to the slow Euclidean distance computation as well as complex quick-sort algorithms. Recently, some works propose to yield binary encoded person descriptors which instead only require fast Hamming distance computation and simple counting-sort algorithms. However, the performances of such binary encoded descriptors, especially with short code (e.g., 32 and 64 bits), are hardly satisfactory given the sparse binary space. To strike a balance between the model accuracy and efficiency, we propose a novel Sub-space Consistency Regularization (SCR) algorithm that can speed up the ReID procedure by $0.25$ times than real-value features under the same dimensions whilst maintaining a competitive accuracy, especially under short codes. SCR transforms real-value features vector (e.g., 2048 float32) with short binary codes (e.g., 64 bits) by first dividing real-value features vector into $M$ sub-spaces, each with $C$ clustered centroids. Thus the distance between two samples can be expressed as the summation of the respective distance to the centroids, which can be sped up by offline calculation and maintained via a look-up table. On the other side, these real-value centroids help to achieve significantly higher accuracy than using binary code. Lastly, we convert the distance look-up table to be integer and apply the counting-sort algorithm to speed up the ranking stage.   We also propose a novel consistency regularization with an iterative framework. Experimental results on Market-1501 and DukeMTMC-reID show promising and exciting results. Under short code, our proposed SCR enjoys Real-value-level accuracy and Hashing-level speed.
RWT-SLAM: Robust Visual SLAM for Highly Weak-textured Environments
As a fundamental task for intelligent robots, visual SLAM has made great progress over the past decades. However, robust SLAM under highly weak-textured environments still remains very challenging. In this paper, we propose a novel visual SLAM system named RWT-SLAM to tackle this problem. We modify LoFTR network which is able to produce dense point matching under low-textured scenes to generate feature descriptors. To integrate the new features into the popular ORB-SLAM framework, we develop feature masks to filter out the unreliable features and employ KNN strategy to strengthen the matching robustness. We also retrained visual vocabulary upon new descriptors for efficient loop closing. The resulting RWT-SLAM is tested in various public datasets such as TUM and OpenLORIS, as well as our own data. The results shows very promising performance under highly weak-textured environments.
Semi-supervised Human Pose Estimation in Art-historical Images
Gesture as language of non-verbal communication has been theoretically established since the 17th century. However, its relevance for the visual arts has been expressed only sporadically. This may be primarily due to the sheer overwhelming amount of data that traditionally had to be processed by hand. With the steady progress of digitization, though, a growing number of historical artifacts have been indexed and made available to the public, creating a need for automatic retrieval of art-historical motifs with similar body constellations or poses. Since the domain of art differs significantly from existing real-world data sets for human pose estimation due to its style variance, this presents new challenges. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to estimate human poses in art-historical images. In contrast to previous work that attempts to bridge the domain gap with pre-trained models or through style transfer, we suggest semi-supervised learning for both object and keypoint detection. Furthermore, we introduce a novel domain-specific art data set that includes both bounding box and keypoint annotations of human figures. Our approach achieves significantly better results than methods that use pre-trained models or style transfer.
Weakly-supervised High-fidelity Ultrasound Video Synthesis with Feature Decoupling
Ultrasound (US) is widely used for its advantages of real-time imaging, radiation-free and portability. In clinical practice, analysis and diagnosis often rely on US sequences rather than a single image to obtain dynamic anatomical information. This is challenging for novices to learn because practicing with adequate videos from patients is clinically unpractical. In this paper, we propose a novel framework to synthesize high-fidelity US videos. Specifically, the synthesis videos are generated by animating source content images based on the motion of given driving videos. Our highlights are three-fold. First, leveraging the advantages of self- and fully-supervised learning, our proposed system is trained in weakly-supervised manner for keypoint detection. These keypoints then provide vital information for handling complex high dynamic motions in US videos. Second, we decouple content and texture learning using the dual decoders to effectively reduce the model learning difficulty. Last, we adopt the adversarial training strategy with GAN losses for further improving the sharpness of the generated videos, narrowing the gap between real and synthesis videos. We validate our method on a large in-house pelvic dataset with high dynamic motion. Extensive evaluation metrics and user study prove the effectiveness of our proposed method.
Motion Estimation for Large Displacements and Deformations
Large displacement optical flow is an integral part of many computer vision tasks. Variational optical flow techniques based on a coarse-to-fine scheme interpolate sparse matches and locally optimize an energy model conditioned on colour, gradient and smoothness, making them sensitive to noise in the sparse matches, deformations, and arbitrarily large displacements. This paper addresses this problem and presents HybridFlow, a variational motion estimation framework for large displacements and deformations. A multi-scale hybrid matching approach is performed on the image pairs. Coarse-scale clusters formed by classifying pixels according to their feature descriptors are matched using the clusters' context descriptors. We apply a multi-scale graph matching on the finer-scale superpixels contained within each matched pair of coarse-scale clusters. Small clusters that cannot be further subdivided are matched using localized feature matching. Together, these initial matches form the flow, which is propagated by an edge-preserving interpolation and variational refinement. Our approach does not require training and is robust to substantial displacements and rigid and non-rigid transformations due to motion in the scene, making it ideal for large-scale imagery such as Wide-Area Motion Imagery (WAMI). More notably, HybridFlow works on directed graphs of arbitrary topology representing perceptual groups, which improves motion estimation in the presence of significant deformations. We demonstrate HybridFlow's superior performance to state-of-the-art variational techniques on two benchmark datasets and report comparable results with state-of-the-art deep-learning-based techniques.
Deep embedded clustering algorithm for clustering PACS repositories
Creating large datasets of medical radiology images from several sources can be challenging because of the differences in the acquisition and storage standards. One possible way of controlling and/or assessing the image selection process is through medical image clustering. This, however, requires an efficient method for learning latent image representations. In this paper, we tackle the problem of fully-unsupervised clustering of medical images using pixel data only. We test the performance of several contemporary approaches, built on top of a convolutional autoencoder (CAE) - convolutional deep embedded clustering (CDEC) and convolutional improved deep embedded clustering (CIDEC) - and three approaches based on preset feature extraction - histogram of oriented gradients (HOG), local binary pattern (LBP) and principal component analysis (PCA). CDEC and CIDEC are end-to-end clustering solutions, involving simultaneous learning of latent representations and clustering assignments, whereas the remaining approaches rely on k-means clustering from fixed embeddings. We train the models on 30,000 images, and test them using a separate test set consisting of 8,000 images. We sampled the data from the PACS repository archive of the Clinical Hospital Centre Rijeka. For evaluation, we use silhouette score, homogeneity score and normalised mutual information (NMI) on two target parameters, closely associated with commonly occurring DICOM tags - Modality and anatomical region (adjusted BodyPartExamined tag). CIDEC attains an NMI score of 0.473 with respect to anatomical region, and CDEC attains an NMI score of 0.645 with respect to the tag Modality - both outperforming other commonly used feature descriptors.
KTN: Knowledge Transfer Network for Learning Multi-person 2D-3D Correspondences
Human densepose estimation, aiming at establishing dense correspondences between 2D pixels of human body and 3D human body template, is a key technique in enabling machines to have an understanding of people in images. It still poses several challenges due to practical scenarios where real-world scenes are complex and only partial annotations are available, leading to incompelete or false estimations. In this work, we present a novel framework to detect the densepose of multiple people in an image. The proposed method, which we refer to Knowledge Transfer Network (KTN), tackles two main problems: 1) how to refine image representation for alleviating incomplete estimations, and 2) how to reduce false estimation caused by the low-quality training labels (i.e., limited annotations and class-imbalance labels). Unlike existing works directly propagating the pyramidal features of regions for densepose estimation, the KTN uses a refinement of pyramidal representation, where it simultaneously maintains feature resolution and suppresses background pixels, and this strategy results in a substantial increase in accuracy. Moreover, the KTN enhances the ability of 3D based body parsing with external knowledges, where it casts 2D based body parsers trained from sufficient annotations as a 3D based body parser through a structural body knowledge graph. In this way, it significantly reduces the adverse effects caused by the low-quality annotations. The effectiveness of KTN is demonstrated by its superior performance to the state-of-the-art methods on DensePose-COCO dataset. Extensive ablation studies and experimental results on representative tasks (e.g., human body segmentation, human part segmentation and keypoints detection) and two popular densepose estimation pipelines (i.e., RCNN and fully-convolutional frameworks), further indicate the generalizability of the proposed method.
Self-Supervised Consistent Quantization for Fully Unsupervised Image Retrieval
Unsupervised image retrieval aims to learn an efficient retrieval system without expensive data annotations, but most existing methods rely heavily on handcrafted feature descriptors or pre-trained feature extractors. To minimize human supervision, recent advance proposes deep fully unsupervised image retrieval aiming at training a deep model from scratch to jointly optimize visual features and quantization codes. However, existing approach mainly focuses on instance contrastive learning without considering underlying semantic structure information, resulting in sub-optimal performance. In this work, we propose a novel self-supervised consistent quantization approach to deep fully unsupervised image retrieval, which consists of part consistent quantization and global consistent quantization. In part consistent quantization, we devise part neighbor semantic consistency learning with codeword diversity regularization. This allows to discover underlying neighbor structure information of sub-quantized representations as self-supervision. In global consistent quantization, we employ contrastive learning for both embedding and quantized representations and fuses these representations for consistent contrastive regularization between instances. This can make up for the loss of useful representation information during quantization and regularize consistency between instances. With a unified learning objective of part and global consistent quantization, our approach exploits richer self-supervision cues to facilitate model learning. Extensive experiments on three benchmark datasets show the superiority of our approach over the state-of-the-art methods.
A Unified Sequence Interface for Vision Tasks
While language tasks are naturally expressed in a single, unified, modeling framework, i.e., generating sequences of tokens, this has not been the case in computer vision. As a result, there is a proliferation of distinct architectures and loss functions for different vision tasks. In this work we show that a diverse set of "core" computer vision tasks can also be unified if formulated in terms of a shared pixel-to-sequence interface. We focus on four tasks, namely, object detection, instance segmentation, keypoint detection, and image captioning, all with diverse types of outputs, e.g., bounding boxes or dense masks. Despite that, by formulating the output of each task as a sequence of discrete tokens with a unified interface, we show that one can train a neural network with a single model architecture and loss function on all these tasks, with no task-specific customization. To solve a specific task, we use a short prompt as task description, and the sequence output adapts to the prompt so it can produce task-specific output. We show that such a model can achieve competitive performance compared to well-established task-specific models.
Beyond RGB: Scene-Property Synthesis with Neural Radiance Fields
Comprehensive 3D scene understanding, both geometrically and semantically, is important for real-world applications such as robot perception. Most of the existing work has focused on developing data-driven discriminative models for scene understanding. This paper provides a new approach to scene understanding, from a synthesis model perspective, by leveraging the recent progress on implicit 3D representation and neural rendering. Building upon the great success of Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs), we introduce Scene-Property Synthesis with NeRF (SS-NeRF) that is able to not only render photo-realistic RGB images from novel viewpoints, but also render various accurate scene properties (e.g., appearance, geometry, and semantics). By doing so, we facilitate addressing a variety of scene understanding tasks under a unified framework, including semantic segmentation, surface normal estimation, reshading, keypoint detection, and edge detection. Our SS-NeRF framework can be a powerful tool for bridging generative learning and discriminative learning, and thus be beneficial to the investigation of a wide range of interesting problems, such as studying task relationships within a synthesis paradigm, transferring knowledge to novel tasks, facilitating downstream discriminative tasks as ways of data augmentation, and serving as auto-labeller for data creation.
SNAKE: Shape-aware Neural 3D Keypoint Field
Detecting 3D keypoints from point clouds is important for shape reconstruction, while this work investigates the dual question: can shape reconstruction benefit 3D keypoint detection? Existing methods either seek salient features according to statistics of different orders or learn to predict keypoints that are invariant to transformation. Nevertheless, the idea of incorporating shape reconstruction into 3D keypoint detection is under-explored. We argue that this is restricted by former problem formulations. To this end, a novel unsupervised paradigm named SNAKE is proposed, which is short for shape-aware neural 3D keypoint field. Similar to recent coordinate-based radiance or distance field, our network takes 3D coordinates as inputs and predicts implicit shape indicators and keypoint saliency simultaneously, thus naturally entangling 3D keypoint detection and shape reconstruction. We achieve superior performance on various public benchmarks, including standalone object datasets ModelNet40, KeypointNet, SMPL meshes and scene-level datasets 3DMatch and Redwood. Intrinsic shape awareness brings several advantages as follows. (1) SNAKE generates 3D keypoints consistent with human semantic annotation, even without such supervision. (2) SNAKE outperforms counterparts in terms of repeatability, especially when the input point clouds are down-sampled. (3) the generated keypoints allow accurate geometric registration, notably in a zero-shot setting. Codes are available at https://github.com/zhongcl-thu/SNAKE
MulT: An End-to-End Multitask Learning Transformer
We propose an end-to-end Multitask Learning Transformer framework, named MulT, to simultaneously learn multiple high-level vision tasks, including depth estimation, semantic segmentation, reshading, surface normal estimation, 2D keypoint detection, and edge detection. Based on the Swin transformer model, our framework encodes the input image into a shared representation and makes predictions for each vision task using task-specific transformer-based decoder heads. At the heart of our approach is a shared attention mechanism modeling the dependencies across the tasks. We evaluate our model on several multitask benchmarks, showing that our MulT framework outperforms both the state-of-the art multitask convolutional neural network models and all the respective single task transformer models. Our experiments further highlight the benefits of sharing attention across all the tasks, and demonstrate that our MulT model is robust and generalizes well to new domains. Our project website is at https://ivrl.github.io/MulT/.
ConfLab: A Data Collection Concept, Dataset, and Benchmark for Machine Analysis of Free-Standing Social Interactions in the Wild
Recording the dynamics of unscripted human interactions in the wild is challenging due to the delicate trade-offs between several factors: participant privacy, ecological validity, data fidelity, and logistical overheads. To address these, following a 'datasets for the community by the community' ethos, we propose the Conference Living Lab (ConfLab): a new concept for multimodal multisensor data collection of in-the-wild free-standing social conversations. For the first instantiation of ConfLab described here, we organized a real-life professional networking event at a major international conference. Involving 48 conference attendees, the dataset captures a diverse mix of status, acquaintance, and networking motivations. Our capture setup improves upon the data fidelity of prior in-the-wild datasets while retaining privacy sensitivity: 8 videos (1920x1080, 60 fps) from a non-invasive overhead view, and custom wearable sensors with onboard recording of body motion (full 9-axis IMU), privacy-preserving low-frequency audio (1250 Hz), and Bluetooth-based proximity. Additionally, we developed custom solutions for distributed hardware synchronization at acquisition and time-efficient continuous annotation of body keypoints and actions at high sampling rates. Our benchmarks showcase some of the open research tasks related to in-the-wild privacy-preserving social data analysis: keypoints detection from overhead camera views, skeleton-based no-audio speaker detection, and F-formation detection.
GRIT: General Robust Image Task Benchmark
Computer vision models excel at making predictions when the test distribution closely resembles the training distribution. Such models have yet to match the ability of biological vision to learn from multiple sources and generalize to new data sources and tasks. To facilitate the development and evaluation of more general vision systems, we introduce the General Robust Image Task (GRIT) benchmark. GRIT evaluates the performance, robustness, and calibration of a vision system across a variety of image prediction tasks, concepts, and data sources. The seven tasks in GRIT are selected to cover a range of visual skills: object categorization, object localization, referring expression grounding, visual question answering, segmentation, human keypoint detection, and surface normal estimation. GRIT is carefully designed to enable the evaluation of robustness under image perturbations, image source distribution shift, and concept distribution shift. By providing a unified platform for thorough assessment of skills and concepts learned by a vision model, we hope GRIT catalyzes the development of performant and robust general purpose vision systems.
Polarimetric imaging for the detection of synthetic models of SARS-CoV-2: a proof of concept
Objective: To conduct a proof-of-concept study of the detection of two synthetic models of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) using polarimetric imaging. Methods: Two SARS-CoV-2 models were prepared as engineered lentiviruses pseudotyped with the G protein of the vesicular stomatitis virus, and with the characteristic Spike protein of SARS-CoV-2. Samples were preparations in two biofluids (saline solution and artificial saliva), in four concentrations, and deposited as 5-{\mu}L droplets on a supporting plate. The angles of maximal degree of linear polarization (DLP) of light diffusely scattered from dry residues were determined using Mueller polarimetry of 87 samples at 405 nm and 514 nm. A polarimetric camera was used for simultaneous imaging of several samples under 380-420 nm illumination at angles similar to those of maximal DLP. A per-pixel image analysis included quantification and combination of polarization feature descriptors in other 475 samples. Results: The angles (from sample surface) of maximal DLP were 3 degrees for 405 nm and 6 degrees for 514 nm. Similar viral particles that differ only in the characteristic spike protein of the SARS-CoV-2, their corresponding negative controls, fluids, and the sample holder were discerned from polarimetric image analysis at 10-degree and 15-degree configurations. Conclusion: Polarimetric imaging in the visible spectrum has the potential for non-contact, reagent-free detection of viruses in multiple dry fluid residues simultaneously. Further analysis including real SARS-CoV-2 in human samples -- particularly, fresh saliva -- are required. Significance: Polarimetric imaging under visible light could contribute to fast, cost-effective screening of SARS-CoV-2 and other pathogens.
ViTPose: Simple Vision Transformer Baselines for Human Pose Estimation
Although no specific domain knowledge is considered in the design, plain vision transformers have shown excellent performance in visual recognition tasks. However, little effort has been made to reveal the potential of such simple structures for pose estimation tasks. In this paper, we show the surprisingly good capabilities of plain vision transformers for pose estimation from various aspects, namely simplicity in model structure, scalability in model size, flexibility in training paradigm, and transferability of knowledge between models, through a simple baseline model called ViTPose. Specifically, ViTPose employs plain and non-hierarchical vision transformers as backbones to extract features for a given person instance and a lightweight decoder for pose estimation. It can be scaled up from 100M to 1B parameters by taking the advantages of the scalable model capacity and high parallelism of transformers, setting a new Pareto front between throughput and performance. Besides, ViTPose is very flexible regarding the attention type, input resolution, pre-training and finetuning strategy, as well as dealing with multiple pose tasks. We also empirically demonstrate that the knowledge of large ViTPose models can be easily transferred to small ones via a simple knowledge token. Experimental results show that our basic ViTPose model outperforms representative methods on the challenging MS COCO Keypoint Detection benchmark, while the largest model sets a new state-of-the-art. The code and models are available at https://github.com/ViTAE-Transformer/ViTPose.
Unified GCNs: Towards Connecting GCNs with CNNs
Graph Convolutional Networks (GCNs) have been widely demonstrated their powerful ability in graph data representation and learning. Existing graph convolution layers are mainly designed based on graph signal processing and transform aspect which usually suffer from some limitations, such as over-smoothing, over-squashing and non-robustness, etc. As we all know that Convolution Neural Networks (CNNs) have received great success in many computer vision and machine learning. One main aspect is that CNNs leverage many learnable convolution filters (kernels) to obtain rich feature descriptors and thus can have high capacity to encode complex patterns in visual data analysis. Also, CNNs are flexible in designing their network architecture, such as MobileNet, ResNet, Xception, etc. Therefore, it is natural to arise a question: can we design graph convolutional layer as flexibly as that in CNNs? Innovatively, in this paper, we consider connecting GCNs with CNNs deeply from a general perspective of depthwise separable convolution operation. Specifically, we show that GCN and GAT indeed perform some specific depthwise separable convolution operations. This novel interpretation enables us to better understand the connections between GCNs (GCN, GAT) and CNNs and further inspires us to design more Unified GCNs (UGCNs). As two showcases, we implement two UGCNs, i.e., Separable UGCN (S-UGCN) and General UGCN (G-UGCN) for graph data representation and learning. Promising experiments on several graph representation benchmarks demonstrate the effectiveness and advantages of the proposed UGCNs.
Self-Supervised Equivariant Learning for Oriented Keypoint Detection
Detecting robust keypoints from an image is an integral part of many computer vision problems, and the characteristic orientation and scale of keypoints play an important role for keypoint description and matching. Existing learning-based methods for keypoint detection rely on standard translation-equivariant CNNs but often fail to detect reliable keypoints against geometric variations. To learn to detect robust oriented keypoints, we introduce a self-supervised learning framework using rotation-equivariant CNNs. We propose a dense orientation alignment loss by an image pair generated by synthetic transformations for training a histogram-based orientation map. Our method outperforms the previous methods on an image matching benchmark and a camera pose estimation benchmark.
The Z-axis, X-axis, Weight and Disambiguation Methods for Constructing Local Reference Frame in 3D Registration: An Evaluation
The local reference frame (LRF), as an independent coordinate system generated on a local 3D surface, is widely used in 3D local feature descriptor construction and 3D transformation estimation which are two key steps in the local method-based surface matching. There are numerous LRF methods have been proposed in literatures. In these methods, the x- and z-axis are commonly generated by different methods or strategies, and some x-axis methods are implemented on the basis of a z-axis being given. In addition, the weight and disambiguation methods are commonly used in these LRF methods. In existing evaluations of LRF, each LRF method is evaluated with a complete form. However, the merits and demerits of the z-axis, x-axis, weight and disambiguation methods in LRF construction are unclear. In this paper, we comprehensively analyze the z-axis, x-axis, weight and disambiguation methods in existing LRFs, and obtain six z-axis and eight x-axis, five weight and two disambiguation methods. The performance of these methods are comprehensively evaluated on six standard datasets with different application scenarios and nuisances. Considering the evaluation outcomes, the merits and demerits of different weight, disambiguation, z- and x-axis methods are analyzed and summarized. The experimental result also shows that some new designed LRF axes present superior performance compared with the state-of-the-art ones.
2D Human Pose Estimation: A Survey
Human pose estimation aims at localizing human anatomical keypoints or body parts in the input data (e.g., images, videos, or signals). It forms a crucial component in enabling machines to have an insightful understanding of the behaviors of humans, and has become a salient problem in computer vision and related fields. Deep learning techniques allow learning feature representations directly from the data, significantly pushing the performance boundary of human pose estimation. In this paper, we reap the recent achievements of 2D human pose estimation methods and present a comprehensive survey. Briefly, existing approaches put their efforts in three directions, namely network architecture design, network training refinement, and post processing. Network architecture design looks at the architecture of human pose estimation models, extracting more robust features for keypoint recognition and localization. Network training refinement tap into the training of neural networks and aims to improve the representational ability of models. Post processing further incorporates model-agnostic polishing strategies to improve the performance of keypoint detection. More than 200 research contributions are involved in this survey, covering methodological frameworks, common benchmark datasets, evaluation metrics, and performance comparisons. We seek to provide researchers with a more comprehensive and systematic review on human pose estimation, allowing them to acquire a grand panorama and better identify future directions.
Towards Homogeneous Modality Learning and Multi-Granularity Information Exploration for Visible-Infrared Person Re-Identification
Visible-infrared person re-identification (VI-ReID) is a challenging and essential task, which aims to retrieve a set of person images over visible and infrared camera views. In order to mitigate the impact of large modality discrepancy existing in heterogeneous images, previous methods attempt to apply generative adversarial network (GAN) to generate the modality-consisitent data. However, due to severe color variations between the visible domain and infrared domain, the generated fake cross-modality samples often fail to possess good qualities to fill the modality gap between synthesized scenarios and target real ones, which leads to sub-optimal feature representations. In this work, we address cross-modality matching problem with Aligned Grayscale Modality (AGM), an unified dark-line spectrum that reformulates visible-infrared dual-mode learning as a gray-gray single-mode learning problem. Specifically, we generate the grasycale modality from the homogeneous visible images. Then, we train a style tranfer model to transfer infrared images into homogeneous grayscale images. In this way, the modality discrepancy is significantly reduced in the image space. In order to reduce the remaining appearance discrepancy, we further introduce a multi-granularity feature extraction network to conduct feature-level alignment. Rather than relying on the global information, we propose to exploit local (head-shoulder) features to assist person Re-ID, which complements each other to form a stronger feature descriptor. Comprehensive experiments implemented on the mainstream evaluation datasets include SYSU-MM01 and RegDB indicate that our method can significantly boost cross-modality retrieval performance against the state of the art methods.
Cloning Outfits from Real-World Images to 3D Characters for Generalizable Person Re-Identification
Recently, large-scale synthetic datasets are shown to be very useful for generalizable person re-identification. However, synthesized persons in existing datasets are mostly cartoon-like and in random dress collocation, which limits their performance. To address this, in this work, an automatic approach is proposed to directly clone the whole outfits from real-world person images to virtual 3D characters, such that any virtual person thus created will appear very similar to its real-world counterpart. Specifically, based on UV texture mapping, two cloning methods are designed, namely registered clothes mapping and homogeneous cloth expansion. Given clothes keypoints detected on person images and labeled on regular UV maps with clear clothes structures, registered mapping applies perspective homography to warp real-world clothes to the counterparts on the UV map. As for invisible clothes parts and irregular UV maps, homogeneous expansion segments a homogeneous area on clothes as a realistic cloth pattern or cell, and expand the cell to fill the UV map. Furthermore, a similarity-diversity expansion strategy is proposed, by clustering person images, sampling images per cluster, and cloning outfits for 3D character generation. This way, virtual persons can be scaled up densely in visual similarity to challenge model learning, and diversely in population to enrich sample distribution. Finally, by rendering the cloned characters in Unity3D scenes, a more realistic virtual dataset called ClonedPerson is created, with 5,621 identities and 887,766 images. Experimental results show that the model trained on ClonedPerson has a better generalization performance, superior to that trained on other popular real-world and synthetic person re-identification datasets. The ClonedPerson project is available at https://github.com/Yanan-Wang-cs/ClonedPerson.
SkeleVision: Towards Adversarial Resiliency of Person Tracking with Multi-Task Learning
Person tracking using computer vision techniques has wide ranging applications such as autonomous driving, home security and sports analytics. However, the growing threat of adversarial attacks raises serious concerns regarding the security and reliability of such techniques. In this work, we study the impact of multi-task learning (MTL) on the adversarial robustness of the widely used SiamRPN tracker, in the context of person tracking. Specifically, we investigate the effect of jointly learning with semantically analogous tasks of person tracking and human keypoint detection. We conduct extensive experiments with more powerful adversarial attacks that can be physically realizable, demonstrating the practical value of our approach. Our empirical study with simulated as well as real-world datasets reveals that training with MTL consistently makes it harder to attack the SiamRPN tracker, compared to typically training only on the single task of person tracking.
MS-HLMO: Multi-scale Histogram of Local Main Orientation for Remote Sensing Image Registration
Multi-source image registration is challenging due to intensity, rotation, and scale differences among the images. Considering the characteristics and differences of multi-source remote sensing images, a feature-based registration algorithm named Multi-scale Histogram of Local Main Orientation (MS-HLMO) is proposed. Harris corner detection is first adopted to generate feature points. The HLMO feature of each Harris feature point is extracted on a Partial Main Orientation Map (PMOM) with a Generalized Gradient Location and Orientation Histogram-like (GGLOH) feature descriptor, which provides high intensity, rotation, and scale invariance. The feature points are matched through a multi-scale matching strategy. Comprehensive experiments on 17 multi-source remote sensing scenes demonstrate that the proposed MS-HLMO and its simplified version MS-HLMO$^+$ outperform other competitive registration algorithms in terms of effectiveness and generalization.
Assessing Evolutionary Terrain Generation Methods for Curriculum Reinforcement Learning
Curriculum learning allows complex tasks to be mastered via incremental progression over `stepping stone' goals towards a final desired behaviour. Typical implementations learn locomotion policies for challenging environments through gradual complexification of a terrain mesh generated through a parameterised noise function. To date, researchers have predominantly generated terrains from a limited range of noise functions, and the effect of the generator on the learning process is underrepresented in the literature. We compare popular noise-based terrain generators to two indirect encodings, CPPN and GAN. To allow direct comparison between both direct and indirect representations, we assess the impact of a range of representation-agnostic MAP-Elites feature descriptors that compute metrics directly from the generated terrain meshes. Next, performance and coverage are assessed when training a humanoid robot in a physics simulator using the PPO algorithm. Results describe key differences between the generators that inform their use in curriculum learning, and present a range of useful feature descriptors for uptake by the community.
REGTR: End-to-end Point Cloud Correspondences with Transformers
Despite recent success in incorporating learning into point cloud registration, many works focus on learning feature descriptors and continue to rely on nearest-neighbor feature matching and outlier filtering through RANSAC to obtain the final set of correspondences for pose estimation. In this work, we conjecture that attention mechanisms can replace the role of explicit feature matching and RANSAC, and thus propose an end-to-end framework to directly predict the final set of correspondences. We use a network architecture consisting primarily of transformer layers containing self and cross attentions, and train it to predict the probability each point lies in the overlapping region and its corresponding position in the other point cloud. The required rigid transformation can then be estimated directly from the predicted correspondences without further post-processing. Despite its simplicity, our approach achieves state-of-the-art performance on 3DMatch and ModelNet benchmarks. Our source code can be found at https://github.com/yewzijian/RegTR .
UMT: Unified Multi-modal Transformers for Joint Video Moment Retrieval and Highlight Detection
Finding relevant moments and highlights in videos according to natural language queries is a natural and highly valuable common need in the current video content explosion era. Nevertheless, jointly conducting moment retrieval and highlight detection is an emerging research topic, even though its component problems and some related tasks have already been studied for a while. In this paper, we present the first unified framework, named Unified Multi-modal Transformers (UMT), capable of realizing such joint optimization while can also be easily degenerated for solving individual problems. As far as we are aware, this is the first scheme to integrate multi-modal (visual-audio) learning for either joint optimization or the individual moment retrieval task, and tackles moment retrieval as a keypoint detection problem using a novel query generator and query decoder. Extensive comparisons with existing methods and ablation studies on QVHighlights, Charades-STA, YouTube Highlights, and TVSum datasets demonstrate the effectiveness, superiority, and flexibility of the proposed method under various settings. Source code and pre-trained models are available at https://github.com/TencentARC/UMT.
MatchFormer: Interleaving Attention in Transformers for Feature Matching
Local feature matching is a computationally intensive task at the subpixel level. While detector-based methods coupled with feature descriptors struggle in low-texture scenes, CNN-based methods with a sequential extract-to-match pipeline, fail to make use of the matching capacity of the encoder and tend to overburden the decoder for matching. In contrast, we propose a novel hierarchical extract-and-match transformer, termed as MatchFormer. Inside each stage of the hierarchical encoder, we interleave self-attention for feature extraction and cross-attention for feature matching, yielding a human-intuitive extract-and-match scheme. Such a match-aware encoder releases the overloaded decoder and makes the model highly efficient. Further, combining self- and cross-attention on multi-scale features in a hierarchical architecture improves matching robustness, particularly in low-texture indoor scenes or with less outdoor training data. Thanks to such a strategy, MatchFormer is a multi-win solution in efficiency, robustness, and precision. Compared to the previous best method in indoor pose estimation, our lite MatchFormer has only 45% GFLOPs, yet achieves a +1.3% precision gain and a 41% running speed boost. The large MatchFormer reaches state-of-the-art on four different benchmarks, including indoor pose estimation (ScanNet), outdoor pose estimation (MegaDepth), homography estimation and image matching (HPatch), and visual localization (InLoc).
PosePipe: Open-Source Human Pose Estimation Pipeline for Clinical Research
There has been significant progress in machine learning algorithms for human pose estimation that may provide immense value in rehabilitation and movement sciences. However, there remain several challenges to routine use of these tools for clinical practice and translational research, including: 1) high technical barrier to entry, 2) rapidly evolving space of algorithms, 3) challenging algorithmic interdependencies, and 4) complex data management requirements between these components. To mitigate these barriers, we developed a human pose estimation pipeline that facilitates running state-of-the-art algorithms on data acquired in clinical context. Our system allows for running different implementations of several classes of algorithms and handles their interdependencies easily. These algorithm classes include subject identification and tracking, 2D keypoint detection, 3D joint location estimation, and estimating the pose of body models. The system uses a database to manage videos, intermediate analyses, and data for computations at each stage. It also provides tools for data visualization, including generating video overlays that also obscure faces to enhance privacy. Our goal in this work is not to train new algorithms, but to advance the use of cutting-edge human pose estimation algorithms for clinical and translation research. We show that this tool facilitates analyzing large numbers of videos of human movement ranging from gait laboratories analyses, to clinic and therapy visits, to people in the community. We also highlight limitations of these algorithms when applied to clinical populations in a rehabilitation setting.
DRTAM: Dual Rank-1 Tensor Attention Module
Recently, attention mechanisms have been extensively investigated in computer vision, but few of them show excellent performance on both large and mobile networks. This paper proposes Dual Rank-1 Tensor Attention Module (DRTAM), a novel residual-attention-learning-guided attention module for feed-forward convolutional neural networks. Given a 3D feature tensor map, DRTAM firstly generates three 2D feature descriptors along three axes. Then, using three descriptors, DRTAM sequentially infers two rank-1 tensor attention maps, the initial attention map and the complement attention map, combines and multiplied them to the input feature map for adaptive feature refinement(see Fig.1(c)). To generate two attention maps, DRTAM introduces rank-1 tensor attention module (RTAM) and residual descriptors extraction module (RDEM): RTAM divides each 2D feature descriptors into several chunks, and generate three factor vectors of a rank-1 tensor attention map by employing strip pooling on each chunk so that local and long-range contextual information can be captured along three dimension respectively; RDEM generates three 2D feature descriptors of the residual feature to produce the complement attention map, using three factor vectors of the initial attention map and three descriptors of the input feature. Extensive experimental results on ImageNet-1K, MS COCO and PASCAL VOC demonstrate that DRTAM achieves competitive performance on both large and mobile networks compare with other state-of-the-art attention modules.
Weakly Supervised Learning of Keypoints for 6D Object Pose Estimation
State-of-the-art approaches for 6D object pose estimation require large amounts of labeled data to train the deep networks. However, the acquisition of 6D object pose annotations is tedious and labor-intensive in large quantity. To alleviate this problem, we propose a weakly supervised 6D object pose estimation approach based on 2D keypoint detection. Our method trains only on image pairs with known relative transformations between their viewpoints. Specifically, we assign a set of arbitrarily chosen 3D keypoints to represent each unknown target 3D object and learn a network to detect their 2D projections that comply with the relative camera viewpoints. During inference, our network first infers the 2D keypoints from the query image and a given labeled reference image. We then use these 2D keypoints and the arbitrarily chosen 3D keypoints retained from training to infer the 6D object pose. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our approach achieves comparable performance with state-of-the-art fully supervised approaches.
Motion-Aware Transformer For Occluded Person Re-identification
Recently, occluded person re-identification(Re-ID) remains a challenging task that people are frequently obscured by other people or obstacles, especially in a crowd massing situation. In this paper, we propose a self-supervised deep learning method to improve the location performance for human parts through occluded person Re-ID. Unlike previous works, we find that motion information derived from the photos of various human postures can help identify major human body components. Firstly, a motion-aware transformer encoder-decoder architecture is designed to obtain keypoints heatmaps and part-segmentation maps. Secondly, an affine transformation module is utilized to acquire motion information from the keypoint detection branch. Then the motion information will support the segmentation branch to achieve refined human part segmentation maps, and effectively divide the human body into reasonable groups. Finally, several cases demonstrate the efficiency of the proposed model in distinguishing different representative parts of the human body, which can avoid the background and occlusion disturbs. Our method consistently achieves state-of-the-art results on several popular datasets, including occluded, partial, and holistic.
Sim2Real Object-Centric Keypoint Detection and Description
Keypoint detection and description play a central role in computer vision. Most existing methods are in the form of scene-level prediction, without returning the object classes of different keypoints. In this paper, we propose the object-centric formulation, which, beyond the conventional setting, requires further identifying which object each interest point belongs to. With such fine-grained information, our framework enables more downstream potentials, such as object-level matching and pose estimation in a clustered environment. To get around the difficulty of label collection in the real world, we develop a sim2real contrastive learning mechanism that can generalize the model trained in simulation to real-world applications. The novelties of our training method are three-fold: (i) we integrate the uncertainty into the learning framework to improve feature description of hard cases, e.g., less-textured or symmetric patches; (ii) we decouple the object descriptor into two output branches -- intra-object salience and inter-object distinctness, resulting in a better pixel-wise description; (iii) we enforce cross-view semantic consistency for enhanced robustness in representation learning. Comprehensive experiments on image matching and 6D pose estimation verify the encouraging generalization ability of our method from simulation to reality. Particularly for 6D pose estimation, our method significantly outperforms typical unsupervised/sim2real methods, achieving a closer gap with the fully supervised counterpart. Additional results and videos can be found at https://zhongcl-thu.github.io/rock/
Cross-Centroid Ripple Pattern for Facial Expression Recognition
In this paper, we propose a new feature descriptor Cross-Centroid Ripple Pattern (CRIP) for facial expression recognition. CRIP encodes the transitional pattern of a facial expression by incorporating cross-centroid relationship between two ripples located at radius r1 and r2 respectively. These ripples are generated by dividing the local neighborhood region into subregions. Thus, CRIP has ability to preserve macro and micro structural variations in an extensive region, which enables it to deal with side views and spontaneous expressions. Furthermore, gradient information between cross centroid ripples provides strenght to captures prominent edge features in active patches: eyes, nose and mouth, that define the disparities between different facial expressions. Cross centroid information also provides robustness to irregular illumination. Moreover, CRIP utilizes the averaging behavior of pixels at subregions that yields robustness to deal with noisy conditions. The performance of proposed descriptor is evaluated on seven comprehensive expression datasets consisting of challenging conditions such as age, pose, ethnicity and illumination variations. The experimental results show that our descriptor consistently achieved better accuracy rate as compared to existing state-of-art approaches.
Reproducing BowNet: Learning Representations by Predicting Bags of Visual Words
This work aims to reproduce results from the CVPR 2020 paper by Gidaris et al. Self-supervised learning (SSL) is used to learn feature representations of an image using an unlabeled dataset. This work proposes to use bag-of-words (BoW) deep feature descriptors as a self-supervised learning target to learn robust, deep representations. BowNet is trained to reconstruct the histogram of visual words (ie. the deep BoW descriptor) of a reference image when presented a perturbed version of the image as input. Thus, this method aims to learn perturbation-invariant and context-aware image features that can be useful for few-shot tasks or supervised downstream tasks. In the paper, the author describes BowNet as a network consisting of a convolutional feature extractor $\Phi(\cdot)$ and a Dense-softmax layer $\Omega(\cdot)$ trained to predict BoW features from images. After BoW training, the features of $\Phi$ are used in downstream tasks. For this challenge we were trying to build and train a network that could reproduce the CIFAR-100 accuracy improvements reported in the original paper. However, we were unsuccessful in reproducing an accuracy improvement comparable to what the authors mentioned. This could be for a variety of factors and we believe that time constraints were the primary bottleneck.
TFS Recognition: Investigating MPH]{Thai Finger Spelling Recognition: Investigating MediaPipe Hands Potentials
Thai Finger Spelling (TFS) sign recognition could benefit a community of hearing-difficulty people in bridging to a major hearing population. With a relatively large number of alphabets, TFS employs multiple signing schemes. Two schemes of more common signing -- static and dynamic single-hand signing, widely used in other sign languages -- have been addressed in several previous works. To complete the TFS sign recognition, the remaining two of quite distinct signing schemes -- static and dynamic point-on-hand signing -- need to be sufficiently addressed.   With the advent of many off-the-shelf hand skeleton prediction models and that training a model to recognize a sign language from scratch is expensive, we explore an approach building upon recently launched MediaPipe Hands (MPH). MPH is a high-precision well-trained model for hand-keypoint detection.   We have investigated MPH on three TFS schemes: static-single-hand (S1), simplified dynamic-single-hand (S2) and static-point-on-hand (P1) schemes.   Our results show that MPH can satisfactorily address single-hand schemes with accuracy of 84.57% on both S1 and S2.   However, our finding reveals a shortcoming of MPH in addressing a point-on-hand scheme, whose accuracy is 23.66% on P1 conferring to 69.19% obtained from conventional classification trained from scratch. This shortcoming has been investigated and attributed to self occlusion and handedness.
A Keypoint Detection and Description Network Based on the Vessel Structure for Multi-Modal Retinal Image Registration
Ophthalmological imaging utilizes different imaging systems, such as color fundus, infrared, fluorescein angiography, optical coherence tomography (OCT) or OCT angiography. Multiple images with different modalities or acquisition times are often analyzed for the diagnosis of retinal diseases. Automatically aligning the vessel structures in the images by means of multi-modal registration can support the ophthalmologists in their work. Our method uses a convolutional neural network to extract features of the vessel structure in multi-modal retinal images. We jointly train a keypoint detection and description network on small patches using a classification and a cross-modal descriptor loss function and apply the network to the full image size in the test phase. Our method demonstrates the best registration performance on our and a public multi-modal dataset in comparison to competing methods.
Skin feature point tracking using deep feature encodings
Facial feature tracking is a key component of imaging ballistocardiography (BCG) where accurate quantification of the displacement of facial keypoints is needed for good heart rate estimation. Skin feature tracking enables video-based quantification of motor degradation in Parkinson's disease. Traditional computer vision algorithms include Scale Invariant Feature Transform (SIFT), Speeded-Up Robust Features (SURF), and Lucas-Kanade method (LK). These have long represented the state-of-the-art in efficiency and accuracy but fail when common deformations, like affine local transformations or illumination changes, are present.   Over the past five years, deep convolutional neural networks have outperformed traditional methods for most computer vision tasks. We propose a pipeline for feature tracking, that applies a convolutional stacked autoencoder to identify the most similar crop in an image to a reference crop containing the feature of interest. The autoencoder learns to represent image crops into deep feature encodings specific to the object category it is trained on.   We train the autoencoder on facial images and validate its ability to track skin features in general using manually labeled face and hand videos. The tracking errors of distinctive skin features (moles) are so small that we cannot exclude that they stem from the manual labelling based on a $\chi^2$-test. With a mean error of 0.6-4.2 pixels, our method outperformed the other methods in all but one scenario. More importantly, our method was the only one to not diverge.   We conclude that our method creates better feature descriptors for feature tracking, feature matching, and image registration than the traditional algorithms.
Improved 2D Keypoint Detection in Out-of-Balance and Fall Situations -- combining input rotations and a kinematic model
Injury analysis may be one of the most beneficial applications of deep learning based human pose estimation. To facilitate further research on this topic, we provide an injury specific 2D dataset for alpine skiing, covering in total 533 images. We further propose a post processing routine, that combines rotational information with a simple kinematic model. We could improve detection results in fall situations by up to 21% regarding the PCK@0.2 metric.
Looking Beyond Corners: Contrastive Learning of Visual Representations for Keypoint Detection and Description Extraction
Learnable keypoint detectors and descriptors are beginning to outperform classical hand-crafted feature extraction methods. Recent studies on self-supervised learning of visual representations have driven the increasing performance of learnable models based on deep networks. By leveraging traditional data augmentations and homography transformations, these networks learn to detect corners under adverse conditions such as extreme illumination changes. However, their generalization capabilities are limited to corner-like features detected a priori by classical methods or synthetically generated data.   In this paper, we propose the Correspondence Network (CorrNet) that learns to detect repeatable keypoints and to extract discriminative descriptions via unsupervised contrastive learning under spatial constraints. Our experiments show that CorrNet is not only able to detect low-level features such as corners, but also high-level features that represent similar objects present in a pair of input images through our proposed joint guided backpropagation of their latent space. Our approach obtains competitive results under viewpoint changes and achieves state-of-the-art performance under illumination changes.
Parallel Multi-Scale Networks with Deep Supervision for Hand Keypoint Detection
Keypoint detection plays an important role in a wide range of applications. However, predicting keypoints of small objects such as human hands is a challenging problem. Recent works fuse feature maps of deep Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), either via multi-level feature integration or multi-resolution aggregation. Despite achieving some success, the feature fusion approaches increase the complexity and the opacity of CNNs. To address this issue, we propose a novel CNN model named Multi-Scale Deep Supervision Network (P-MSDSNet) that learns feature maps at different scales with deep supervisions to produce attention maps for adaptive feature propagation from layers to layers. P-MSDSNet has a multi-stage architecture which makes it scalable while its deep supervision with spatial attention improves transparency to the feature learning at each stage. We show that P-MSDSNet outperforms the state-of-the-art approaches on benchmark datasets while requiring fewer number of parameters. We also show the application of P-MSDSNet to quantify finger tapping hand movements in a neuroscience study.
GPU optimization of the 3D Scale-invariant Feature Transform Algorithm and a Novel BRIEF-inspired 3D Fast Descriptor
This work details a highly efficient implementation of the 3D scale-invariant feature transform (SIFT) algorithm, for the purpose of machine learning from large sets of volumetric medical image data. The primary operations of the 3D SIFT code are implemented on a graphics processing unit (GPU), including convolution, sub-sampling, and 4D peak detection from scale-space pyramids. The performance improvements are quantified in keypoint detection and image-to-image matching experiments, using 3D MRI human brain volumes of different people. Computationally efficient 3D keypoint descriptors are proposed based on the Binary Robust Independent Elementary Feature (BRIEF) code, including a novel descriptor we call Ranked Robust Independent Elementary Features (RRIEF), and compared to the original 3D SIFT-Rank method\citep{toews2013efficient}. The GPU implementation affords a speedup of approximately 7X beyond an optimised CPU implementation, where computation time is reduced from 1.4 seconds to 0.2 seconds for 3D volumes of size (145, 174, 145) voxels with approximately 3000 keypoints. Notable speedups include the convolution operation (20X), 4D peak detection (3X), sub-sampling (3X), and difference-of-Gaussian pyramid construction (2X). Efficient descriptors offer a speedup of 2X and a memory savings of 6X compared to standard SIFT-Rank descriptors, at a cost of reduced numbers of keypoint correspondences, revealing a trade-off between computational efficiency and algorithmic performance. The speedups gained by our implementation will allow for a more efficient analysis on larger data sets. Our optimized GPU implementation of the 3D SIFT-Rank extractor is available at https://github.com/CarluerJB/3D_SIFT_CUDA.
Masked Feature Prediction for Self-Supervised Visual Pre-Training
We present Masked Feature Prediction (MaskFeat) for self-supervised pre-training of video models. Our approach first randomly masks out a portion of the input sequence and then predicts the feature of the masked regions. We study five different types of features and find Histograms of Oriented Gradients (HOG), a hand-crafted feature descriptor, works particularly well in terms of both performance and efficiency. We observe that the local contrast normalization in HOG is essential for good results, which is in line with earlier work using HOG for visual recognition. Our approach can learn abundant visual knowledge and drive large-scale Transformer-based models. Without using extra model weights or supervision, MaskFeat pre-trained on unlabeled videos achieves unprecedented results of 86.7% with MViT-L on Kinetics-400, 88.3% on Kinetics-600, 80.4% on Kinetics-700, 39.8 mAP on AVA, and 75.0% on SSv2. MaskFeat further generalizes to image input, which can be interpreted as a video with a single frame and obtains competitive results on ImageNet.
DenseGAP: Graph-Structured Dense Correspondence Learning with Anchor Points
Establishing dense correspondence between two images is a fundamental computer vision problem, which is typically tackled by matching local feature descriptors. However, without global awareness, such local features are often insufficient for disambiguating similar regions. And computing the pairwise feature correlation across images is both computation-expensive and memory-intensive. To make the local features aware of the global context and improve their matching accuracy, we introduce DenseGAP, a new solution for efficient Dense correspondence learning with a Graph-structured neural network conditioned on Anchor Points. Specifically, we first propose a graph structure that utilizes anchor points to provide sparse but reliable prior on inter- and intra-image context and propagates them to all image points via directed edges. We also design a graph-structured network to broadcast multi-level contexts via light-weighted message-passing layers and generate high-resolution feature maps at low memory cost. Finally, based on the predicted feature maps, we introduce a coarse-to-fine framework for accurate correspondence prediction using cycle consistency. Our feature descriptors capture both local and global information, thus enabling a continuous feature field for querying arbitrary points at high resolution. Through comprehensive ablative experiments and evaluations on large-scale indoor and outdoor datasets, we demonstrate that our method advances the state-of-the-art of correspondence learning on most benchmarks.
Few-shot Keypoint Detection with Uncertainty Learning for Unseen Species
Current non-rigid object keypoint detectors perform well on a chosen kind of species and body parts, and require a large amount of labelled keypoints for training. Moreover, their heatmaps, tailored to specific body parts, cannot recognize novel keypoints (keypoints not labelled for training) on unseen species. We raise an interesting yet challenging question: how to detect both base (annotated for training) and novel keypoints for unseen species given a few annotated samples? Thus, we propose a versatile Few-shot Keypoint Detection (FSKD) pipeline, which can detect a varying number of keypoints of different kinds. Our FSKD provides the uncertainty estimation of predicted keypoints. Specifically, FSKD involves main and auxiliary keypoint representation learning, similarity learning, and keypoint localization with uncertainty modeling to tackle the localization noise. Moreover, we model the uncertainty across groups of keypoints by multivariate Gaussian distribution to exploit implicit correlations between neighboring keypoints. We show the effectiveness of our FSKD on (i) novel keypoint detection for unseen species, and (ii) few-shot Fine-Grained Visual Recognition (FGVR) and (iii) Semantic Alignment (SA) downstream tasks. For FGVR, detected keypoints improve the classification accuracy. For SA, we showcase a novel thin-plate-spline warping that uses estimated keypoint uncertainty under imperfect keypoint corespondences.
Few-Shot Keypoint Detection as Task Adaptation via Latent Embeddings
Dense object tracking, the ability to localize specific object points with pixel-level accuracy, is an important computer vision task with numerous downstream applications in robotics. Existing approaches either compute dense keypoint embeddings in a single forward pass, meaning the model is trained to track everything at once, or allocate their full capacity to a sparse predefined set of points, trading generality for accuracy. In this paper we explore a middle ground based on the observation that the number of relevant points at a given time are typically relatively few, e.g. grasp points on a target object. Our main contribution is a novel architecture, inspired by few-shot task adaptation, which allows a sparse-style network to condition on a keypoint embedding that indicates which point to track. Our central finding is that this approach provides the generality of dense-embedding models, while offering accuracy significantly closer to sparse-keypoint approaches. We present results illustrating this capacity vs. accuracy trade-off, and demonstrate the ability to zero-shot transfer to new object instances (within-class) using a real-robot pick-and-place task.
ALIKE: Accurate and Lightweight Keypoint Detection and Descriptor Extraction
Existing methods detect the keypoints in a non-differentiable way, therefore they can not directly optimize the position of keypoints through back-propagation. To address this issue, we present a partially differentiable keypoint detection module, which outputs accurate sub-pixel keypoints. The reprojection loss is then proposed to directly optimize these sub-pixel keypoints, and the dispersity peak loss is presented for accurate keypoints regularization. We also extract the descriptors in a sub-pixel way, and they are trained with the stable neural reprojection error loss. Moreover, a lightweight network is designed for keypoint detection and descriptor extraction, which can run at 95 frames per second for 640x480 images on a commercial GPU. On homography estimation, camera pose estimation, and visual (re-)localization tasks, the proposed method achieves equivalent performance with the state-of-the-art approaches, while greatly reduces the inference time.
Attend to Who You Are: Supervising Self-Attention for Keypoint Detection and Instance-Aware Association
This paper presents a new method to solve keypoint detection and instance association by using Transformer. For bottom-up multi-person pose estimation models, they need to detect keypoints and learn associative information between keypoints. We argue that these problems can be entirely solved by Transformer. Specifically, the self-attention in Transformer measures dependencies between any pair of locations, which can provide association information for keypoints grouping. However, the naive attention patterns are still not subjectively controlled, so there is no guarantee that the keypoints will always attend to the instances to which they belong. To address it we propose a novel approach of supervising self-attention for multi-person keypoint detection and instance association. By using instance masks to supervise self-attention to be instance-aware, we can assign the detected keypoints to their corresponding instances based on the pairwise attention scores, without using pre-defined offset vector fields or embedding like CNN-based bottom-up models. An additional benefit of our method is that the instance segmentation results of any number of people can be directly obtained from the supervised attention matrix, thereby simplifying the pixel assignment pipeline. The experiments on the COCO multi-person keypoint detection challenge and person instance segmentation task demonstrate the effectiveness and simplicity of the proposed method and show a promising way to control self-attention behavior for specific purposes.
Template NeRF: Towards Modeling Dense Shape Correspondences from Category-Specific Object Images
We present neural radiance fields (NeRF) with templates, dubbed Template-NeRF, for modeling appearance and geometry and generating dense shape correspondences simultaneously among objects of the same category from only multi-view posed images, without the need of either 3D supervision or ground-truth correspondence knowledge. The learned dense correspondences can be readily used for various image-based tasks such as keypoint detection, part segmentation, and texture transfer that previously require specific model designs. Our method can also accommodate annotation transfer in a one or few-shot manner, given only one or a few instances of the category. Using periodic activation and feature-wise linear modulation (FiLM) conditioning, we introduce deep implicit templates on 3D data into the 3D-aware image synthesis pipeline NeRF. By representing object instances within the same category as shape and appearance variation of a shared NeRF template, our proposed method can achieve dense shape correspondences reasoning on images for a wide range of object classes. We demonstrate the results and applications on both synthetic and real-world data with competitive results compared with other methods based on 3D information.
Voxel-based 3D Detection and Reconstruction of Multiple Objects from a Single Image
Inferring 3D locations and shapes of multiple objects from a single 2D image is a long-standing objective of computer vision. Most of the existing works either predict one of these 3D properties or focus on solving both for a single object. One fundamental challenge lies in how to learn an effective representation of the image that is well-suited for 3D detection and reconstruction. In this work, we propose to learn a regular grid of 3D voxel features from the input image which is aligned with 3D scene space via a 3D feature lifting operator. Based on the 3D voxel features, our novel CenterNet-3D detection head formulates the 3D detection as keypoint detection in the 3D space. Moreover, we devise an efficient coarse-to-fine reconstruction module, including coarse-level voxelization and a novel local PCA-SDF shape representation, which enables fine detail reconstruction and one order of magnitude faster inference than prior methods. With complementary supervision from both 3D detection and reconstruction, one enables the 3D voxel features to be geometry and context preserving, benefiting both tasks.The effectiveness of our approach is demonstrated through 3D detection and reconstruction in single object and multiple object scenarios.
A New Look at Spike-Timing-Dependent Plasticity Networks for Spatio-Temporal Feature Learning
We present new theoretical foundations for unsupervised Spike-Timing-Dependent Plasticity (STDP) learning in spiking neural networks (SNNs). In contrast to empirical parameter search used in most previous works, we provide novel theoretical grounds for SNN and STDP parameter tuning which considerably reduces design time. Using our generic framework, we propose a class of global, action-based and convolutional SNN-STDP architectures for learning spatio-temporal features from event-based cameras. We assess our methods on the N-MNIST, the CIFAR10-DVS and the IBM DVS128 Gesture datasets, all acquired with a real-world event camera. Using our framework, we report significant improvements in classification accuracy compared to both conventional state-of-the-art event-based feature descriptors (+8.2% on CIFAR10-DVS), and compared to state-of-the-art STDP-based systems (+9.3% on N-MNIST, +7.74% on IBM DVS128 Gesture). Our work contributes to both ultra-low-power learning in neuromorphic edge devices, and towards a biologically-plausible, optimization-based theory of cortical vision.
Geometry-Aware Hierarchical Bayesian Learning on Manifolds
Bayesian learning with Gaussian processes demonstrates encouraging regression and classification performances in solving computer vision tasks. However, Bayesian methods on 3D manifold-valued vision data, such as meshes and point clouds, are seldom studied. One of the primary challenges is how to effectively and efficiently aggregate geometric features from the irregular inputs. In this paper, we propose a hierarchical Bayesian learning model to address this challenge. We initially introduce a kernel with the properties of geometry-awareness and intra-kernel convolution. This enables geometrically reasonable inferences on manifolds without using any specific hand-crafted feature descriptors. Then, we use a Gaussian process regression to organize the inputs and finally implement a hierarchical Bayesian network for the feature aggregation. Furthermore, we incorporate the feature learning of neural networks with the feature aggregation of Bayesian models to investigate the feasibility of jointly learning on manifolds. Experimental results not only show that our method outperforms existing Bayesian methods on manifolds but also demonstrate the prospect of coupling neural networks with Bayesian networks.
CoFiNet: Reliable Coarse-to-fine Correspondences for Robust Point Cloud Registration
We study the problem of extracting correspondences between a pair of point clouds for registration. For correspondence retrieval, existing works benefit from matching sparse keypoints detected from dense points but usually struggle to guarantee their repeatability. To address this issue, we present CoFiNet - Coarse-to-Fine Network which extracts hierarchical correspondences from coarse to fine without keypoint detection. On a coarse scale and guided by a weighting scheme, our model firstly learns to match down-sampled nodes whose vicinity points share more overlap, which significantly shrinks the search space of a consecutive stage. On a finer scale, node proposals are consecutively expanded to patches that consist of groups of points together with associated descriptors. Point correspondences are then refined from the overlap areas of corresponding patches, by a density-adaptive matching module capable to deal with varying point density. Extensive evaluation of CoFiNet on both indoor and outdoor standard benchmarks shows our superiority over existing methods. Especially on 3DLoMatch where point clouds share less overlap, CoFiNet significantly outperforms state-of-the-art approaches by at least 5% on Registration Recall, with at most two-third of their parameters.
HWTool: Fully Automatic Mapping of an Extensible C++ Image Processing Language to Hardware
Implementing image processing algorithms using FPGAs or ASICs can improve energy efficiency by orders of magnitude over optimized CPU, DSP, or GPU code. These efficiency improvements are crucial for enabling new applications on mobile power-constrained devices, such as cell phones or AR/VR headsets. Unfortunately, custom hardware is commonly implemented using a waterfall process with time-intensive manual mapping and optimization phases. Thus, it can take years for a new algorithm to make it all the way from an algorithm design to shipping silicon. Recent improvements in hardware design tools, such as C-to-gates High-Level Synthesis (HLS), can reduce design time, but still require manual tuning from hardware experts.   In this paper, we present HWTool, a novel system for automatically mapping image processing and computer vision algorithms to hardware. Our system maps between two domains: HWImg, an extensible C++ image processing library containing common image processing and parallel computing operators, and Rigel2, a library of optimized hardware implementations of HWImg's operators and backend Verilog compiler. We show how to automatically compile HWImg to Rigel2, by solving for interfaces, hardware sizing, and FIFO buffer allocation. Finally, we map full-scale image processing applications like convolution, optical flow, depth from stereo, and feature descriptors to FPGA using our system. On these examples, HWTool requires on average only 11% more FPGA area than hand-optimized designs (with manual FIFO allocation), and 33% more FPGA area than hand-optimized designs with automatic FIFO allocation, and performs similarly to HLS.
Keypoint-Based Bimanual Shaping of Deformable Linear Objects under Environmental Constraints using Hierarchical Action Planning
This paper addresses the problem of contact-based manipulation of deformable linear objects (DLOs) towards desired shapes with a dual-arm robotic system. To alleviate the burden of high-dimensional continuous state-action spaces, we model the DLO as a kinematic multibody system via our proposed keypoint detection network. This new perception network is trained on a synthetic labeled image dataset and transferred to real manipulation scenarios without conducting any manual annotations. Our goal-conditioned policy can efficiently learn to rearrange the configuration of the DLO based on the detected keypoints. The proposed hierarchical action framework tackles the manipulation problem in a coarse-to-fine manner (with high-level task planning and low-level motion control) by leveraging on two action primitives. The identification of deformation properties is avoided since the algorithm replans its motion after each bimanual execution. The conducted experimental results reveal that our method achieves high performance in state representation of the DLO, and is robust to uncertain environmental constraints.
High-order Tensor Pooling with Attention for Action Recognition
We aim at capturing high-order statistics of feature vectors formed by a neural network, and propose end-to-end second- and higher-order pooling to form a tensor descriptor. Tensor descriptors require a robust similarity measure due to low numbers of aggregated vectors and the burstiness phenomenon, when a given feature appears more/less frequently than statistically expected. We show that the Heat Diffusion Process (HDP) on a graph Laplacian is closely related to the Eigenvalue Power Normalization (EPN) of the covariance/auto-correlation matrix, whose inverse forms a loopy graph Laplacian. We show that the HDP and the EPN play the same role, i.e., to boost or dampen the magnitude of the eigenspectrum thus preventing the burstiness. Finally, we equip higher-order tensors with EPN which acts as a spectral detector of higher-order occurrences to prevent burstiness. We prove that for a tensor of order r built from d dimensional feature descriptors, such a detector gives the likelihood if at least one higher-order occurrence is `projected' into one of binom(d,r) subspaces represented by the tensor; thus forming a tensor power normalization metric endowed with binom(d,r) such `detectors'.
Digging Into Self-Supervised Learning of Feature Descriptors
Fully-supervised CNN-based approaches for learning local image descriptors have shown remarkable results in a wide range of geometric tasks. However, most of them require per-pixel ground-truth keypoint correspondence data which is difficult to acquire at scale. To address this challenge, recent weakly- and self-supervised methods can learn feature descriptors from relative camera poses or using only synthetic rigid transformations such as homographies. In this work, we focus on understanding the limitations of existing self-supervised approaches and propose a set of improvements that combined lead to powerful feature descriptors. We show that increasing the search space from in-pair to in-batch for hard negative mining brings consistent improvement. To enhance the discriminativeness of feature descriptors, we propose a coarse-to-fine method for mining local hard negatives from a wider search space by using global visual image descriptors. We demonstrate that a combination of synthetic homography transformation, color augmentation, and photorealistic image stylization produces useful representations that are viewpoint and illumination invariant. The feature descriptors learned by the proposed approach perform competitively and surpass their fully- and weakly-supervised counterparts on various geometric benchmarks such as image-based localization, sparse feature matching, and image retrieval.
BPFNet: A Unified Framework for Bimodal Palmprint Alignment and Fusion
Bimodal palmprint recognition leverages palmprint and palm vein images simultaneously,which achieves high accuracy by multi-model information fusion and has strong anti-falsification property. In the recognition pipeline, the detection of palm and the alignment of region-of-interest (ROI) are two crucial steps for accurate matching. Most existing methods localize palm ROI by keypoint detection algorithms, however the intrinsic difficulties of keypoint detection tasks make the results unsatisfactory. Besides, the ROI alignment and fusion algorithms at image-level are not fully investigaged.To bridge the gap, in this paper, we propose Bimodal Palmprint Fusion Network (BPFNet) which focuses on ROI localization, alignment and bimodal image fusion.BPFNet is an end-to-end framework containing two subnets: The detection network directly regresses the palmprint ROIs based on bounding box prediction and conducts alignment by translation estimation.In the downstream,the bimodal fusion network implements bimodal ROI image fusion leveraging a novel proposed cross-modal selection scheme. To show the effectiveness of BPFNet,we carry out experiments on the large-scale touchless palmprint datasets CUHKSZ-v1 and TongJi and the proposed method achieves state-of-the-art performances.
Machine learning aided noise filtration and signal classification for CREDO experiment
The wealth of smartphone data collected by the Cosmic Ray Extremely Distributed Observatory(CREDO) greatly surpasses the capabilities of manual analysis. So, efficient means of rejectingthe non-cosmic-ray noise and identification of signals attributable to extensive air showers arenecessary. To address these problems we discuss a Convolutional Neural Network-based method ofartefact rejection and complementary method of particle identification based on common statisticalclassifiers as well as their ensemble extensions. These approaches are based on supervised learning,so we need to provide a representative subset of the CREDO dataset for training and validation.According to this approach over 2300 images were chosen and manually labeled by 5 judges.The images were split into spot, track, worm (collectively named signals) and artefact classes.Then the preprocessing consisting of luminance summation of RGB channels (grayscaling) andbackground removal by adaptive thresholding was performed. For purposes of artefact rejectionthe binary CNN-based classifier was proposed which is able to distinguish between artefacts andsignals. The classifier was fed with input data in the form of Daubechies wavelet transformedimages. In the case of cosmic ray signal classification, the well-known feature-based classifierswere considered. As feature descriptors, we used Zernike moments with additional feature relatedto total image luminance. For the problem of artefact rejection, we obtained an accuracy of 99%. For the 4-class signal classification, the best performing classifiers achieved a recognition rate of 88%.
PDC-Net+: Enhanced Probabilistic Dense Correspondence Network
Establishing robust and accurate correspondences between a pair of images is a long-standing computer vision problem with numerous applications. While classically dominated by sparse methods, emerging dense approaches offer a compelling alternative paradigm that avoids the keypoint detection step. However, dense flow estimation is often inaccurate in the case of large displacements, occlusions, or homogeneous regions. In order to apply dense methods to real-world applications, such as pose estimation, image manipulation, or 3D reconstruction, it is therefore crucial to estimate the confidence of the predicted matches.   We propose the Enhanced Probabilistic Dense Correspondence Network, PDC-Net+, capable of estimating accurate dense correspondences along with a reliable confidence map. We develop a flexible probabilistic approach that jointly learns the flow prediction and its uncertainty. In particular, we parametrize the predictive distribution as a constrained mixture model, ensuring better modelling of both accurate flow predictions and outliers. Moreover, we develop an architecture and an enhanced training strategy tailored for robust and generalizable uncertainty prediction in the context of self-supervised training. Our approach obtains state-of-the-art results on multiple challenging geometric matching and optical flow datasets. We further validate the usefulness of our probabilistic confidence estimation for the tasks of pose estimation, 3D reconstruction, image-based localization, and image retrieval. Code and models are available at https://github.com/PruneTruong/DenseMatching.
HarrisZ$^+$: Harris Corner Selection for Next-Gen Image Matching Pipelines
Due to its role in many computer vision tasks, image matching has been subjected to an active investigation by researchers, which has lead to better and more discriminant feature descriptors and to more robust matching strategies, also thanks to the advent of the deep learning and the increased computational power of the modern hardware. Despite of these achievements, the keypoint extraction process at the base of the image matching pipeline has not seen equivalent progresses. This paper presents HarrisZ$^+$, an upgrade to the HarrisZ corner detector, optimized to synergically take advance of the recent improvements of the other steps of the image matching pipeline. HarrisZ$^+$ does not only consists of a tuning of the setup parameters, but introduces further refinements to the selection criteria delineated by HarrisZ, so providing more, yet discriminative, keypoints, which are better distributed on the image and with higher localization accuracy. The image matching pipeline including HarrisZ$^+$, together with the other modern components, obtained in different recent matching benchmarks state-of-the-art results among the classic image matching pipelines. These results are quite close to those obtained by the more recent fully deep end-to-end trainable approaches and show that there is still a proper margin of improvement that can be granted by the research in classic image matching methods.
Catadioptric Stereo on a Smartphone
We present a 3D printed adapter with planar mirrors for stereo reconstruction using front and back smartphone camera. The adapter presents a practical and low-cost solution for enabling any smartphone to be used as a stereo camera, which is currently only possible using high-end phones with expensive 3D sensors. Using the prototype version of the adapter, we experiment with parameters like the angles between cameras and mirrors and the distance to each camera (the stereo baseline). We find the most convenient configuration and calibrate the stereo pair. Based on the presented preliminary analysis, we identify possible improvements in the current design. To demonstrate the working prototype, we reconstruct a 3D human pose using 2D keypoint detections from the stereo pair and evaluate extracted body lengths. The result shows that the adapter can be used for anthropometric measurement of several body segments.
Semi-supervised Dense Keypointsusing Unlabeled Multiview Images
This paper presents a new end-to-end semi-supervised framework to learn a dense keypoint detector using unlabeled multiview images. A key challenge lies in finding the exact correspondences between the dense keypoints in multiple views since the inverse of keypoint mapping can be neither analytically derived nor differentiated. This limits applying existing multiview supervision approaches on sparse keypoint detection that rely on the exact correspondences. To address this challenge, we derive a new probabilistic epipolar constraint that encodes the two desired properties. (1) Soft correspondence: we define a matchability, which measures a likelihood of a point matching to the other image's corresponding point, thus relaxing the exact correspondences' requirement. (2) Geometric consistency: every point in the continuous correspondence fields must satisfy the multiview consistency collectively. We formulate a probabilistic epipolar constraint using a weighted average of epipolar errors through the matchability thereby generalizing the point-to-point geometric error to the field-to-field geometric error. This generalization facilitates learning a geometrically coherent dense keypoint detection model by utilizing a large number of unlabeled multiview images. Additionally, to prevent degenerative cases, we employ a distillation-based regularization by using a pretrained model. Finally, we design a new neural network architecture, made of twin networks, that effectively minimizes the probabilistic epipolar errors of all possible correspondences between two view images by building affinity matrices. Our method shows superior performance compared to existing methods, including non-differentiable bootstrapping in terms of keypoint accuracy, multiview consistency, and 3D reconstruction accuracy.
A Novel Dataset for Keypoint Detection of quadruped Animals from Images
In this paper, we studied the problem of localizing a generic set of keypoints across multiple quadruped or four-legged animal species from images. Due to the lack of large scale animal keypoint dataset with ground truth annotations, we developed a novel dataset, AwA Pose, for keypoint detection of quadruped animals from images. Our dataset contains significantly more keypoints per animal and has much more diverse animals than the existing datasets for animal keypoint detection. We benchmarked the dataset with a state-of-the-art deep learning model for different keypoint detection tasks, including both seen and unseen animal cases. Experimental results showed the effectiveness of the dataset. We believe that this dataset will help the computer vision community in the design and evaluation of improved models for the generalized quadruped animal keypoint detection problem.
A Matching Algorithm based on Image Attribute Transfer and Local Features for Underwater Acoustic and Optical Images
In the field of underwater vision research, image matching between the sonar sensors and optical cameras has always been a challenging problem. Due to the difference in the imaging mechanism between them, which are the gray value, texture, contrast, etc. of the acoustic images and the optical images are also variant in local locations, which makes the traditional matching method based on the optical image invalid. Coupled with the difficulties and high costs of underwater data acquisition, it further affects the research process of acousto-optic data fusion technology. In order to maximize the use of underwater sensor data and promote the development of multi-sensor information fusion (MSIF), this study applies the image attribute transfer method based on deep learning approach to solve the problem of acousto-optic image matching, the core of which is to eliminate the imaging differences between them as much as possible. At the same time, the advanced local feature descriptor is introduced to solve the challenging acousto-optic matching problem. Experimental results show that our proposed method could preprocess acousto-optic images effectively and obtain accurate matching results. Additionally, the method is based on the combination of image depth semantic layer, and it could indirectly display the local feature matching relationship between original image pair, which provides a new solution to the underwater multi-sensor image matching problem.
Unsupervised domain adaptation for clinician pose estimation and instance segmentation in the operating room
The fine-grained localization of clinicians in the operating room (OR) is a key component to design the new generation of OR support systems. Computer vision models for person pixel-based segmentation and body-keypoints detection are needed to better understand the clinical activities and the spatial layout of the OR. This is challenging, not only because OR images are very different from traditional vision datasets, but also because data and annotations are hard to collect and generate in the OR due to privacy concerns. To address these concerns, we first study how joint person pose estimation and instance segmentation can be performed on low resolutions images with downsampling factors from 1x to 12x. Second, to address the domain shift and the lack of annotations, we propose a novel unsupervised domain adaptation method, called AdaptOR, to adapt a model from an in-the-wild labeled source domain to a statistically different unlabeled target domain. We propose to exploit explicit geometric constraints on the different augmentations of the unlabeled target domain image to generate accurate pseudo labels and use these pseudo labels to train the model on high- and low-resolution OR images in a self-training framework. Furthermore, we propose disentangled feature normalization to handle the statistically different source and target domain data. Extensive experimental results with detailed ablation studies on the two OR datasets MVOR+ and TUM-OR-test show the effectiveness of our approach against strongly constructed baselines, especially on the low-resolution privacy-preserving OR images. Finally, we show the generality of our method as a semi-supervised learning (SSL) method on the large-scale COCO dataset, where we achieve comparable results with as few as 1% of labeled supervision against a model trained with 100% labeled supervision.
Unsupervised Depth Completion with Calibrated Backprojection Layers
We propose a deep neural network architecture to infer dense depth from an image and a sparse point cloud. It is trained using a video stream and corresponding synchronized sparse point cloud, as obtained from a LIDAR or other range sensor, along with the intrinsic calibration parameters of the camera. At inference time, the calibration of the camera, which can be different than the one used for training, is fed as an input to the network along with the sparse point cloud and a single image. A Calibrated Backprojection Layer backprojects each pixel in the image to three-dimensional space using the calibration matrix and a depth feature descriptor. The resulting 3D positional encoding is concatenated with the image descriptor and the previous layer output to yield the input to the next layer of the encoder. A decoder, exploiting skip-connections, produces a dense depth map. The resulting Calibrated Backprojection Network, or KBNet, is trained without supervision by minimizing the photometric reprojection error. KBNet imputes missing depth value based on the training set, rather than on generic regularization. We test KBNet on public depth completion benchmarks, where it outperforms the state of the art by 30.5% indoor and 8.8% outdoor when the same camera is used for training and testing. When the test camera is different, the improvement reaches 62%. Code available at: https://github.com/alexklwong/calibrated-backprojection-network.
Lightweight Multi-person Total Motion Capture Using Sparse Multi-view Cameras
Multi-person total motion capture is extremely challenging when it comes to handle severe occlusions, different reconstruction granularities from body to face and hands, drastically changing observation scales and fast body movements. To overcome these challenges above, we contribute a lightweight total motion capture system for multi-person interactive scenarios using only sparse multi-view cameras. By contributing a novel hand and face bootstrapping algorithm, our method is capable of efficient localization and accurate association of the hands and faces even on severe occluded occasions. We leverage both pose regression and keypoints detection methods and further propose a unified two-stage parametric fitting method for achieving pixel-aligned accuracy. Moreover, for extremely self-occluded poses and close interactions, a novel feedback mechanism is proposed to propagate the pixel-aligned reconstructions into the next frame for more accurate association. Overall, we propose the first light-weight total capture system and achieves fast, robust and accurate multi-person total motion capture performance. The results and experiments show that our method achieves more accurate results than existing methods under sparse-view setups.
Feature Identification and Matching for Hand Hygiene Pose
Three popular feature descriptors of computer vision such as SIFT, SURF, and ORB compared and evaluated. The number of correct features extracted and matched for the original hand hygiene pose-Rub hands palm to palm image and rotated image. An accuracy score calculated based on the total number of matches and the correct number of matches produced. The experiment demonstrated that ORB algorithm outperforms by giving the high number of correct matches in less amount of time. ORB feature detection technique applied over handwashing video recordings for feature extraction and hand hygiene pose classification as a future work. OpenCV utilized to apply the algorithms within python scripts.
EEEA-Net: An Early Exit Evolutionary Neural Architecture Search
The goals of this research were to search for Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) architectures, suitable for an on-device processor with limited computing resources, performing at substantially lower Network Architecture Search (NAS) costs. A new algorithm entitled an Early Exit Population Initialisation (EE-PI) for Evolutionary Algorithm (EA) was developed to achieve both goals. The EE-PI reduces the total number of parameters in the search process by filtering the models with fewer parameters than the maximum threshold. It will look for a new model to replace those models with parameters more than the threshold. Thereby, reducing the number of parameters, memory usage for model storage and processing time while maintaining the same performance or accuracy. The search time was reduced to 0.52 GPU day. This is a huge and significant achievement compared to the NAS of 4 GPU days achieved using NSGA-Net, 3,150 GPU days by the AmoebaNet model, and the 2,000 GPU days by the NASNet model. As well, Early Exit Evolutionary Algorithm networks (EEEA-Nets) yield network architectures with minimal error and computational cost suitable for a given dataset as a class of network algorithms. Using EEEA-Net on CIFAR-10, CIFAR-100, and ImageNet datasets, our experiments showed that EEEA-Net achieved the lowest error rate among state-of-the-art NAS models, with 2.46% for CIFAR-10, 15.02% for CIFAR-100, and 23.8% for ImageNet dataset. Further, we implemented this image recognition architecture for other tasks, such as object detection, semantic segmentation, and keypoint detection tasks, and, in our experiments, EEEA-Net-C2 outperformed MobileNet-V3 on all of these various tasks. (The algorithm code is available at https://github.com/chakkritte/EEEA-Net).
Learning Transferable Parameters for Unsupervised Domain Adaptation
Unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) enables a learning machine to adapt from a labeled source domain to an unlabeled domain under the distribution shift. Thanks to the strong representation ability of deep neural networks, recent remarkable achievements in UDA resort to learning domain-invariant features. Intuitively, the hope is that a good feature representation, together with the hypothesis learned from the source domain, can generalize well to the target domain. However, the learning processes of domain-invariant features and source hypothesis inevitably involve domain-specific information that would degrade the generalizability of UDA models on the target domain. In this paper, motivated by the lottery ticket hypothesis that only partial parameters are essential for generalization, we find that only partial parameters are essential for learning domain-invariant information and generalizing well in UDA. Such parameters are termed transferable parameters. In contrast, the other parameters tend to fit domain-specific details and often fail to generalize, which we term as untransferable parameters. Driven by this insight, we propose Transferable Parameter Learning (TransPar) to reduce the side effect brought by domain-specific information in the learning process and thus enhance the memorization of domain-invariant information. Specifically, according to the distribution discrepancy degree, we divide all parameters into transferable and untransferable ones in each training iteration. We then perform separate updates rules for the two types of parameters. Extensive experiments on image classification and regression tasks (keypoint detection) show that TransPar outperforms prior arts by non-trivial margins. Moreover, experiments demonstrate that TransPar can be integrated into the most popular deep UDA networks and be easily extended to handle any data distribution shift scenarios.
A Low Rank Promoting Prior for Unsupervised Contrastive Learning
Unsupervised learning is just at a tipping point where it could really take off. Among these approaches, contrastive learning has seen tremendous progress and led to state-of-the-art performance. In this paper, we construct a novel probabilistic graphical model that effectively incorporates the low rank promoting prior into the framework of contrastive learning, referred to as LORAC. In contrast to the existing conventional self-supervised approaches that only considers independent learning, our hypothesis explicitly requires that all the samples belonging to the same instance class lie on the same subspace with small dimension. This heuristic poses particular joint learning constraints to reduce the degree of freedom of the problem during the search of the optimal network parameterization. Most importantly, we argue that the low rank prior employed here is not unique, and many different priors can be invoked in a similar probabilistic way, corresponding to different hypotheses about underlying truth behind the contrastive features. Empirical evidences show that the proposed algorithm clearly surpasses the state-of-the-art approaches on multiple benchmarks, including image classification, object detection, instance segmentation and keypoint detection.
Automatic Vocabulary and Graph Verification for Accurate Loop Closure Detection
Localizing pre-visited places during long-term simultaneous localization and mapping, i.e. loop closure detection (LCD), is a crucial technique to correct accumulated inconsistencies. As one of the most effective and efficient solutions, Bag-of-Words (BoW) builds a visual vocabulary to associate features and then detect loops. Most existing approaches that build vocabularies off-line determine scales of the vocabulary by trial-and-error, which often results in unreasonable feature association. Moreover, the accuracy of the algorithm usually declines due to perceptual aliasing, as the BoW-based method ignores the positions of visual features. To overcome these disadvantages, we propose a natural convergence criterion based on the comparison between the radii of nodes and the drifts of feature descriptors, which is then utilized to build the optimal vocabulary automatically. Furthermore, we present a novel topological graph verification method for validating candidate loops so that geometrical positions of the words can be involved with a negligible increase in complexity, which can significantly improve the accuracy of LCD. Experiments on various public datasets and comparisons against several state-of-the-art algorithms verify the performance of our proposed approach.
Is Object Detection Necessary for Human-Object Interaction Recognition?
This paper revisits human-object interaction (HOI) recognition at image level without using supervisions of object location and human pose. We name it detection-free HOI recognition, in contrast to the existing detection-supervised approaches which rely on object and keypoint detections to achieve state of the art. With our method, not only the detection supervision is evitable, but superior performance can be achieved by properly using image-text pre-training (such as CLIP) and the proposed Log-Sum-Exp Sign (LSE-Sign) loss function. Specifically, using text embeddings of class labels to initialize the linear classifier is essential for leveraging the CLIP pre-trained image encoder. In addition, LSE-Sign loss facilitates learning from multiple labels on an imbalanced dataset by normalizing gradients over all classes in a softmax format. Surprisingly, our detection-free solution achieves 60.5 mAP on the HICO dataset, outperforming the detection-supervised state of the art by 13.4 mAP
Real-time Keypoints Detection for Autonomous Recovery of the Unmanned Ground Vehicle
The combination of a small unmanned ground vehicle (UGV) and a large unmanned carrier vehicle allows more flexibility in real applications such as rescue in dangerous scenarios. The autonomous recovery system, which is used to guide the small UGV back to the carrier vehicle, is an essential component to achieve a seamless combination of the two vehicles. This paper proposes a novel autonomous recovery framework with a low-cost monocular vision system to provide accurate positioning and attitude estimation of the UGV during navigation. First, we introduce a light-weight convolutional neural network called UGV-KPNet to detect the keypoints of the small UGV from the images captured by a monocular camera. UGV-KPNet is computationally efficient with a small number of parameters and provides pixel-level accurate keypoints detection results in real-time. Then, six degrees of freedom pose is estimated using the detected keypoints to obtain positioning and attitude information of the UGV. Besides, we are the first to create a large-scale real-world keypoints dataset of the UGV. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed system achieves state-of-the-art performance in terms of both accuracy and speed on UGV keypoint detection, and can further boost the 6-DoF pose estimation for the UGV.
Resource Efficient Mountainous Skyline Extraction using Shallow Learning
Skyline plays a pivotal role in mountainous visual geo-localization and localization/navigation of planetary rovers/UAVs and virtual/augmented reality applications. We present a novel mountainous skyline detection approach where we adapt a shallow learning approach to learn a set of filters to discriminate between edges belonging to sky-mountain boundary and others coming from different regions. Unlike earlier approaches, which either rely on extraction of explicit feature descriptors and their classification, or fine-tuning general scene parsing deep networks for sky segmentation, our approach learns linear filters based on local structure analysis. At test time, for every candidate edge pixel, a single filter is chosen from the set of learned filters based on pixel's structure tensor, and then applied to the patch around it. We then employ dynamic programming to solve the shortest path problem for the resultant multistage graph to get the sky-mountain boundary. The proposed approach is computationally faster than earlier methods while providing comparable performance and is more suitable for resource constrained platforms e.g., mobile devices, planetary rovers and UAVs. We compare our proposed approach against earlier skyline detection methods using four different data sets. Our code is available at \url{https://github.com/TouqeerAhmad/skyline_detection}.
Exploring Set Similarity for Dense Self-supervised Representation Learning
By considering the spatial correspondence, dense self-supervised representation learning has achieved superior performance on various dense prediction tasks. However, the pixel-level correspondence tends to be noisy because of many similar misleading pixels, e.g., backgrounds. To address this issue, in this paper, we propose to explore \textbf{set} \textbf{sim}ilarity (SetSim) for dense self-supervised representation learning. We generalize pixel-wise similarity learning to set-wise one to improve the robustness because sets contain more semantic and structure information. Specifically, by resorting to attentional features of views, we establish corresponding sets, thus filtering out noisy backgrounds that may cause incorrect correspondences. Meanwhile, these attentional features can keep the coherence of the same image across different views to alleviate semantic inconsistency. We further search the cross-view nearest neighbours of sets and employ the structured neighbourhood information to enhance the robustness. Empirical evaluations demonstrate that SetSim is superior to state-of-the-art methods on object detection, keypoint detection, instance segmentation, and semantic segmentation.
Task-Aware Sampling Layer for Point-Wise Analysis
Sampling, grouping, and aggregation are three important components in the multi-scale analysis of point clouds. In this paper, we present a novel data-driven sampler learning strategy for point-wise analysis tasks. Unlike the widely used sampling technique, Farthest Point Sampling (FPS), we propose to learn sampling and downstream applications jointly. Our key insight is that uniform sampling methods like FPS are not always optimal for different tasks: sampling more points around boundary areas can make the point-wise classification easier for segmentation. Towards this end, we propose a novel sampler learning strategy that learns sampling point displacement supervised by task-related ground truth information and can be trained jointly with the underlying tasks. We further demonstrate our methods in various point-wise analysis tasks, including semantic part segmentation, point cloud completion, and keypoint detection. Our experiments show that jointly learning of the sampler and task brings better performance than using FPS in various point-based networks.
Can Super Resolution be used to improve Human Pose Estimation in Low Resolution Scenarios?
The results obtained from state of the art human pose estimation (HPE) models degrade rapidly when evaluating people of a low resolution, but can super resolution (SR) be used to help mitigate this effect? By using various SR approaches we enhanced two low resolution datasets and evaluated the change in performance of both an object and keypoint detector as well as end-to-end HPE results. We remark the following observations. First we find that for people who were originally depicted at a low resolution (segmentation area in pixels), their keypoint detection performance would improve once SR was applied. Second, the keypoint detection performance gained is dependent on that persons pixel count in the original image prior to any application of SR; keypoint detection performance was improved when SR was applied to people with a small initial segmentation area, but degrades as this becomes larger. To address this we introduced a novel Mask-RCNN approach, utilising a segmentation area threshold to decide when to use SR during the keypoint detection step. This approach achieved the best results on our low resolution datasets for each HPE performance metrics.
SimNet: Enabling Robust Unknown Object Manipulation from Pure Synthetic Data via Stereo
Robot manipulation of unknown objects in unstructured environments is a challenging problem due to the variety of shapes, materials, arrangements and lighting conditions. Even with large-scale real-world data collection, robust perception and manipulation of transparent and reflective objects across various lighting conditions remain challenging. To address these challenges we propose an approach to performing sim-to-real transfer of robotic perception. The underlying model, SimNet, is trained as a single multi-headed neural network using simulated stereo data as input and simulated object segmentation masks, 3D oriented bounding boxes (OBBs), object keypoints, and disparity as output. A key component of SimNet is the incorporation of a learned stereo sub-network that predicts disparity. SimNet is evaluated on 2D car detection, unknown object detection, and deformable object keypoint detection and significantly outperforms a baseline that uses a structured light RGB-D sensor. By inferring grasp positions using the OBB and keypoint predictions, SimNet can be used to perform end-to-end manipulation of unknown objects in both easy and hard scenarios using our fleet of Toyota HSR robots in four home environments. In unknown object grasping experiments, the predictions from the baseline RGB-D network and SimNet enable successful grasps of most of the easy objects. However, the RGB-D baseline only grasps 35% of the hard (e.g., transparent) objects, while SimNet grasps 95%, suggesting that SimNet can enable robust manipulation of unknown objects, including transparent objects, in unknown environments.
Real-Time Human Pose Estimation on a Smart Walker using Convolutional Neural Networks
Rehabilitation is important to improve quality of life for mobility-impaired patients. Smart walkers are a commonly used solution that should embed automatic and objective tools for data-driven human-in-the-loop control and monitoring. However, present solutions focus on extracting few specific metrics from dedicated sensors with no unified full-body approach. We investigate a general, real-time, full-body pose estimation framework based on two RGB+D camera streams with non-overlapping views mounted on a smart walker equipment used in rehabilitation. Human keypoint estimation is performed using a two-stage neural network framework. The 2D-Stage implements a detection module that locates body keypoints in the 2D image frames. The 3D-Stage implements a regression module that lifts and relates the detected keypoints in both cameras to the 3D space relative to the walker. Model predictions are low-pass filtered to improve temporal consistency. A custom acquisition method was used to obtain a dataset, with 14 healthy subjects, used for training and evaluating the proposed framework offline, which was then deployed on the real walker equipment. An overall keypoint detection error of 3.73 pixels for the 2D-Stage and 44.05mm for the 3D-Stage were reported, with an inference time of 26.6ms when deployed on the constrained hardware of the walker. We present a novel approach to patient monitoring and data-driven human-in-the-loop control in the context of smart walkers. It is able to extract a complete and compact body representation in real-time and from inexpensive sensors, serving as a common base for downstream metrics extraction solutions, and Human-Robot interaction applications. Despite promising results, more data should be collected on users with impairments, to assess its performance as a rehabilitation tool in real-world scenarios.
GKNet: grasp keypoint network for grasp candidates detection
Contemporary grasp detection approaches employ deep learning to achieve robustness to sensor and object model uncertainty. The two dominant approaches design either grasp-quality scoring or anchor-based grasp recognition networks. This paper presents a different approach to grasp detection by treating it as keypoint detection in image-space. The deep network detects each grasp candidate as a pair of keypoints, convertible to the grasp representationg = {x, y, w, {\theta}} T , rather than a triplet or quartet of corner points. Decreasing the detection difficulty by grouping keypoints into pairs boosts performance. To promote capturing dependencies between keypoints, a non-local module is incorporated into the network design. A final filtering strategy based on discrete and continuous orientation prediction removes false correspondences and further improves grasp detection performance. GKNet, the approach presented here, achieves a good balance between accuracy and speed on the Cornell and the abridged Jacquard datasets (96.9% and 98.39% at 41.67 and 23.26 fps). Follow-up experiments on a manipulator evaluate GKNet using 4 types of grasping experiments reflecting different nuisance sources: static grasping, dynamic grasping, grasping at varied camera angles, and bin picking. GKNet outperforms reference baselines in static and dynamic grasping experiments while showing robustness to varied camera viewpoints and moderate clutter. The results confirm the hypothesis that grasp keypoints are an effective output representation for deep grasp networks that provide robustness to expected nuisance factors.
Domain Specific Transporter Framework to Detect Fractures in Ultrasound
Ultrasound examination for detecting fractures is ideally suited for Emergency Departments (ED) as it is relatively fast, safe (from ionizing radiation), has dynamic imaging capability and is easily portable. High interobserver variability in manual assessment of ultrasound scans has piqued research interest in automatic assessment techniques using Deep Learning (DL). Most DL techniques are supervised and are trained on large numbers of labeled data which is expensive and requires many hours of careful annotation by experts. In this paper, we propose an unsupervised, domain specific transporter framework to identify relevant keypoints from wrist ultrasound scans. Our framework provides a concise geometric representation highlighting regions with high structural variation in a 3D ultrasound (3DUS) sequence. We also incorporate domain specific information represented by instantaneous local phase (LP) which detects bone features from 3DUS. We validate the technique on 3DUS videos obtained from 30 subjects. Each ultrasound scan was independently assessed by three readers to identify fractures along with the corresponding x-ray. Saliency of keypoints detected in the image\ are compared against manual assessment based on distance from relevant features.The transporter neural network was able to accurately detect 180 out of 250 bone regions sampled from wrist ultrasound videos. We expect this technique to increase the applicability of ultrasound in fracture detection.
HPRNet: Hierarchical Point Regression for Whole-Body Human Pose Estimation
In this paper, we present a new bottom-up one-stage method for whole-body pose estimation, which we call "hierarchical point regression," or HPRNet for short. In standard body pose estimation, the locations of $\sim 17$ major joints on the human body are estimated. Differently, in whole-body pose estimation, the locations of fine-grained keypoints (68 on face, 21 on each hand and 3 on each foot) are estimated as well, which creates a scale variance problem that needs to be addressed. To handle the scale variance among different body parts, we build a hierarchical point representation of body parts and jointly regress them. The relative locations of fine-grained keypoints in each part (e.g. face) are regressed in reference to the center of that part, whose location itself is estimated relative to the person center. In addition, unlike the existing two-stage methods, our method predicts whole-body pose in a constant time independent of the number of people in an image. On the COCO WholeBody dataset, HPRNet significantly outperforms all previous bottom-up methods on the keypoint detection of all whole-body parts (i.e. body, foot, face and hand); it also achieves state-of-the-art results on face (75.4 AP) and hand (50.4 AP) keypoint detection. Code and models are available at \url{https://github.com/nerminsamet/HPRNet}.
RegionViT: Regional-to-Local Attention for Vision Transformers
Vision transformer (ViT) has recently shown its strong capability in achieving comparable results to convolutional neural networks (CNNs) on image classification. However, vanilla ViT simply inherits the same architecture from the natural language processing directly, which is often not optimized for vision applications. Motivated by this, in this paper, we propose a new architecture that adopts the pyramid structure and employ a novel regional-to-local attention rather than global self-attention in vision transformers. More specifically, our model first generates regional tokens and local tokens from an image with different patch sizes, where each regional token is associated with a set of local tokens based on the spatial location. The regional-to-local attention includes two steps: first, the regional self-attention extract global information among all regional tokens and then the local self-attention exchanges the information among one regional token and the associated local tokens via self-attention. Therefore, even though local self-attention confines the scope in a local region but it can still receive global information. Extensive experiments on four vision tasks, including image classification, object and keypoint detection, semantics segmentation and action recognition, show that our approach outperforms or is on par with state-of-the-art ViT variants including many concurrent works. Our source codes and models are available at https://github.com/ibm/regionvit.
Local Latent Representation based on Geometric Convolution for Particle Data Feature Exploration
Feature related particle data analysis plays an important role in many scientific applications such as fluid simulations, cosmology simulations and molecular dynamics. Compared to conventional methods that use hand-crafted feature descriptors, some recent studies focus on transforming the data into a new latent space, where features are easier to be identified, compared and extracted. However, it is challenging to transform particle data into latent representations, since the convolution neural networks used in prior studies require the data presented in regular grids. In this paper, we adopt Geometric Convolution, a neural network building block designed for 3D point clouds, to create latent representations for scientific particle data. These latent representations capture both the particle positions and their physical attributes in the local neighborhood so that features can be extracted by clustering in the latent space, and tracked by applying tracking algorithms such as mean-shift. We validate the extracted features and tracking results from our approach using datasets from three applications and show that they are comparable to the methods that define hand-crafted features for each specific dataset.
Multi-Feature Fusion-based Scene Classification Framework for HSR Images
To realize high-accuracy classification of high spatial resolution (HSR) images, this letter proposes a new multi-feature fusion-based scene classification framework (MF2SCF) by fusing local, global, and color features of HSR images. Specifically, we first extract the local features with the help of image slicing and densely connected convolutional networks (DenseNet), where the outputs of dense blocks in the fine-tuned DenseNet-121 model are jointly averaged and concatenated to describe local features. Second, from the perspective of complex networks (CN), we model a HSR image as an undirected graph based on pixel distance, intensity, and gradient, and obtain a gray-scale image (GSI), a gradient of image (GoI), and three CN-based feature images to delineate global features. To make the global feature descriptor resist to the impact of rotation and illumination, we apply uniform local binary patterns (LBP) on GSI, GoI, and feature images, respectively, and generate the final global feature representation by concatenating spatial histograms. Third, the color features are determined based on the normalized HSV histogram, where HSV stands for hue, saturation, and value, respectively. Finally, three feature vectors are jointly concatenated for scene classification. Experiment results show that MF2SCF significantly improves the classification accuracy compared with state-of-the-art LBP-based methods and deep learning-based methods.
DeepDarts: Modeling Keypoints as Objects for Automatic Scorekeeping in Darts using a Single Camera
Existing multi-camera solutions for automatic scorekeeping in steel-tip darts are very expensive and thus inaccessible to most players. Motivated to develop a more accessible low-cost solution, we present a new approach to keypoint detection and apply it to predict dart scores from a single image taken from any camera angle. This problem involves detecting multiple keypoints that may be of the same class and positioned in close proximity to one another. The widely adopted framework for regressing keypoints using heatmaps is not well-suited for this task. To address this issue, we instead propose to model keypoints as objects. We develop a deep convolutional neural network around this idea and use it to predict dart locations and dartboard calibration points within an overall pipeline for automatic dart scoring, which we call DeepDarts. Additionally, we propose several task-specific data augmentation strategies to improve the generalization of our method. As a proof of concept, two datasets comprising 16k images originating from two different dartboard setups were manually collected and annotated to evaluate the system. In the primary dataset containing 15k images captured from a face-on view of the dartboard using a smartphone, DeepDarts predicted the total score correctly in 94.7% of the test images. In a second more challenging dataset containing limited training data (830 images) and various camera angles, we utilize transfer learning and extensive data augmentation to achieve a test accuracy of 84.0%. Because DeepDarts relies only on single images, it has the potential to be deployed on edge devices, giving anyone with a smartphone access to an automatic dart scoring system for steel-tip darts. The code and datasets are available.
Composite Localization for Human Pose Estimation
The existing human pose estimation methods are confronted with inaccurate long-distance regression or high computational cost due to the complex learning objectives. This work proposes a novel deep learning framework for human pose estimation called composite localization to divide the complex learning objective into two simpler ones: a sparse heatmap to find the keypoint's approximate location and two short-distance offsetmaps to obtain its final precise coordinates. To realize the framework, we construct two types of composite localization networks: CLNet-ResNet and CLNet-Hourglass. We evaluate the networks on three benchmark datasets, including the Leeds Sports Pose dataset, the MPII Human Pose dataset, and the COCO keypoints detection dataset. The experimental results show that our CLNet-ResNet50 outperforms SimpleBaseline by 1.14% with about 1/2 GFLOPs. Our CLNet-Hourglass outperforms the original stacked-hourglass by 4.45% on COCO.
Museum Painting Retrieval
To retrieve images based on their content is one of the most studied topics in the field of computer vision. Nowadays, this problem can be addressed using modern techniques such as feature extraction using machine learning, but over the years different classical methods have been developed. In this paper, we implement a query by example retrieval system for finding paintings in a museum image collection using classic computer vision techniques. Specifically, we study the performance of the color, texture, text and feature descriptors in datasets with different perturbations in the images: noise, overlapping text boxes, color corruption and rotation. We evaluate each of the cases using the Mean Average Precision (MAP) metric, and we obtain results that vary between 0.5 and 1.0 depending on the problem conditions.
Analysis and Mitigations of Reverse Engineering Attacks on Local Feature Descriptors
As autonomous driving and augmented reality evolve, a practical concern is data privacy. In particular, these applications rely on localization based on user images. The widely adopted technology uses local feature descriptors, which are derived from the images and it was long thought that they could not be reverted back. However, recent work has demonstrated that under certain conditions reverse engineering attacks are possible and allow an adversary to reconstruct RGB images. This poses a potential risk to user privacy. We take this a step further and model potential adversaries using a privacy threat model. Subsequently, we show under controlled conditions a reverse engineering attack on sparse feature maps and analyze the vulnerability of popular descriptors including FREAK, SIFT and SOSNet. Finally, we evaluate potential mitigation techniques that select a subset of descriptors to carefully balance privacy reconstruction risk while preserving image matching accuracy; our results show that similar accuracy can be obtained when revealing less information.
Ensemble Feature Extraction for Multi-Container Quality-Diversity Algorithms
Quality-Diversity algorithms search for large collections of diverse and high-performing solutions, rather than just for a single solution like typical optimisation methods. They are specially adapted for multi-modal problems that can be solved in many different ways, such as complex reinforcement learning or robotics tasks. However, these approaches are highly dependent on the choice of feature descriptors (FDs) quantifying the similarity in behaviour of the solutions. While FDs usually needs to be hand-designed, recent studies have proposed ways to define them automatically by using feature extraction techniques, such as PCA or Auto-Encoders, to learn a representation of the problem from previously explored solutions. Here, we extend these approaches to more complex problems which cannot be efficiently explored by relying only on a single representation but require instead a set of diverse and complementary representations. We describe MC-AURORA, a Quality-Diversity approach that optimises simultaneously several collections of solutions, each with a different set of FDs, which are, in turn, defined automatically by an ensemble of modular auto-encoders. We show that this approach produces solutions that are more diverse than those produced by single-representation approaches.
MarkerPose: Robust Real-time Planar Target Tracking for Accurate Stereo Pose Estimation
Despite the attention marker-less pose estimation has attracted in recent years, marker-based approaches still provide unbeatable accuracy under controlled environmental conditions. Thus, they are used in many fields such as robotics or biomedical applications but are primarily implemented through classical approaches, which require lots of heuristics and parameter tuning for reliable performance under different environments. In this work, we propose MarkerPose, a robust, real-time pose estimation system based on a planar target of three circles and a stereo vision system. MarkerPose is meant for high-accuracy pose estimation applications. Our method consists of two deep neural networks for marker point detection. A SuperPoint-like network for pixel-level accuracy keypoint localization and classification, and we introduce EllipSegNet, a lightweight ellipse segmentation network for sub-pixel-level accuracy keypoint detection. The marker's pose is estimated through stereo triangulation. The target point detection is robust to low lighting and motion blur conditions. We compared MarkerPose with a detection method based on classical computer vision techniques using a robotic arm for validation. The results show our method provides better accuracy than the classical technique. Finally, we demonstrate the suitability of MarkerPose in a 3D freehand ultrasound system, which is an application where highly accurate pose estimation is required. Code is available in Python and C++ at https://github.com/jhacsonmeza/MarkerPose.
Multi-scale PIIFD for Registration of Multi-source Remote Sensing Images
This paper aims at providing multi-source remote sensing images registered in geometric space for image fusion. Focusing on the characteristics and differences of multi-source remote sensing images, a feature-based registration algorithm is implemented. The key technologies include image scale-space for implementing multi-scale properties, Harris corner detection for keypoints extraction, and partial intensity invariant feature descriptor (PIIFD) for keypoints description. Eventually, a multi-scale Harris-PIIFD image registration algorithm framework is proposed. The experimental results of four sets of representative real data show that the algorithm has excellent, stable performance in multi-source remote sensing image registration, and can achieve accurate spatial alignment, which has strong practical application value and certain generalization ability.
Seeking Quality Diversity in Evolutionary Co-design of Morphology and Control of Soft Tensegrity Modular Robots
Designing optimal soft modular robots is difficult, due to non-trivial interactions between morphology and controller. Evolutionary algorithms (EAs), combined with physical simulators, represent a valid tool to overcome this issue. In this work, we investigate algorithmic solutions to improve the Quality Diversity of co-evolved designs of Tensegrity Soft Modular Robots (TSMRs) for two robotic tasks, namely goal reaching and squeezing trough a narrow passage. To this aim, we use three different EAs, i.e., MAP-Elites and two custom algorithms: one based on Viability Evolution (ViE) and NEAT (ViE-NEAT), the other named Double Map MAP-Elites (DM-ME) and devised to seek diversity while co-evolving robot morphologies and neural network (NN)-based controllers. In detail, DM-ME extends MAP-Elites in that it uses two distinct feature maps, referring to morphologies and controllers respectively, and integrates a mechanism to automatically define the NN-related feature descriptor. Considering the fitness, in the goal-reaching task ViE-NEAT outperforms MAP-Elites and results equivalent to DM-ME. Instead, when considering diversity in terms of "illumination" of the feature space, DM-ME outperforms the other two algorithms on both tasks, providing a richer pool of possible robotic designs, whereas ViE-NEAT shows comparable performance to MAP-Elites on goal reaching, although it does not exploit any map.
An Improved Discriminative Optimization for 3D Rigid Point Cloud Registration
The Discriminative Optimization (DO) algorithm has been proved much successful in 3D point cloud registration. In the original DO, the feature (descriptor) of two point cloud was defined as a histogram, and the element of histogram indicates the weights of scene points in "front" or "back" side of a model point. In this paper, we extended the histogram which indicate the sides from "front-back" to "front-back", "up-down", and "clockwise-anticlockwise". In addition, we reweighted the extended histogram according to the model points' distribution. We evaluated the proposed Improved DO on the Stanford Bunny and Oxford SensatUrban dataset, and compared it with six classical State-Of-The-Art point cloud registration algorithms. The experimental result demonstrates our algorithm achieves comparable performance in point registration accuracy and root-mean-sqart-error.
Pose Recognition with Cascade Transformers
In this paper, we present a regression-based pose recognition method using cascade Transformers. One way to categorize the existing approaches in this domain is to separate them into 1). heatmap-based and 2). regression-based. In general, heatmap-based methods achieve higher accuracy but are subject to various heuristic designs (not end-to-end mostly), whereas regression-based approaches attain relatively lower accuracy but they have less intermediate non-differentiable steps. Here we utilize the encoder-decoder structure in Transformers to perform regression-based person and keypoint detection that is general-purpose and requires less heuristic design compared with the existing approaches. We demonstrate the keypoint hypothesis (query) refinement process across different self-attention layers to reveal the recursive self-attention mechanism in Transformers. In the experiments, we report competitive results for pose recognition when compared with the competing regression-based methods.
HoughNet: Integrating near and long-range evidence for visual detection
This paper presents HoughNet, a one-stage, anchor-free, voting-based, bottom-up object detection method. Inspired by the Generalized Hough Transform, HoughNet determines the presence of an object at a certain location by the sum of the votes cast on that location. Votes are collected from both near and long-distance locations based on a log-polar vote field. Thanks to this voting mechanism, HoughNet is able to integrate both near and long-range, class-conditional evidence for visual recognition, thereby generalizing and enhancing current object detection methodology, which typically relies on only local evidence. On the COCO dataset, HoughNet's best model achieves $46.4$ $AP$ (and $65.1$ $AP_{50}$), performing on par with the state-of-the-art in bottom-up object detection and outperforming most major one-stage and two-stage methods. We further validate the effectiveness of our proposal in other visual detection tasks, namely, video object detection, instance segmentation, 3D object detection and keypoint detection for human pose estimation, and an additional "labels to photo" image generation task, where the integration of our voting module consistently improves performance in all cases. Code is available at https://github.com/nerminsamet/houghnet.
DexYCB: A Benchmark for Capturing Hand Grasping of Objects
We introduce DexYCB, a new dataset for capturing hand grasping of objects. We first compare DexYCB with a related one through cross-dataset evaluation. We then present a thorough benchmark of state-of-the-art approaches on three relevant tasks: 2D object and keypoint detection, 6D object pose estimation, and 3D hand pose estimation. Finally, we evaluate a new robotics-relevant task: generating safe robot grasps in human-to-robot object handover. Dataset and code are available at https://dex-ycb.github.io.
DeepI2P: Image-to-Point Cloud Registration via Deep Classification
This paper presents DeepI2P: a novel approach for cross-modality registration between an image and a point cloud. Given an image (e.g. from a rgb-camera) and a general point cloud (e.g. from a 3D Lidar scanner) captured at different locations in the same scene, our method estimates the relative rigid transformation between the coordinate frames of the camera and Lidar. Learning common feature descriptors to establish correspondences for the registration is inherently challenging due to the lack of appearance and geometric correlations across the two modalities. We circumvent the difficulty by converting the registration problem into a classification and inverse camera projection optimization problem. A classification neural network is designed to label whether the projection of each point in the point cloud is within or beyond the camera frustum. These labeled points are subsequently passed into a novel inverse camera projection solver to estimate the relative pose. Extensive experimental results on Oxford Robotcar and KITTI datasets demonstrate the feasibility of our approach. Our source code is available at https://github.com/lijx10/DeepI2P
Unsupervised Visual Attention and Invariance for Reinforcement Learning
Vision-based reinforcement learning (RL) is successful, but how to generalize it to unknown test environments remains challenging. Existing methods focus on training an RL policy that is universal to changing visual domains, whereas we focus on extracting visual foreground that is universal, feeding clean invariant vision to the RL policy learner. Our method is completely unsupervised, without manual annotations or access to environment internals.   Given videos of actions in a training environment, we learn how to extract foregrounds with unsupervised keypoint detection, followed by unsupervised visual attention to automatically generate a foreground mask per video frame. We can then introduce artificial distractors and train a model to reconstruct the clean foreground mask from noisy observations. Only this learned model is needed during test to provide distraction-free visual input to the RL policy learner.   Our Visual Attention and Invariance (VAI) method significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art on visual domain generalization, gaining 15 to 49% (61 to 229%) more cumulative rewards per episode on DeepMind Control (our DrawerWorld Manipulation) benchmarks. Our results demonstrate that it is not only possible to learn domain-invariant vision without any supervision, but freeing RL from visual distractions also makes the policy more focused and thus far better.
Localization of Autonomous Vehicles: Proof of Concept for A Computer Vision Approach
This paper introduces a visual-based localization method for autonomous vehicles (AVs) that operate in the absence of any complicated hardware system but a single camera. Visual localization refers to techniques that aim to find the location of an object based on visual information of its surrounding area. The problem of localization has been of interest for many years. However, visual localization is a relatively new subject in the literature of transportation. Moreover, the inevitable application of this type of localization in the context of autonomous vehicles demands special attention from the transportation community to this problem. This study proposes a two-step localization method that requires a database of geotagged images and a camera mounted on a vehicle that can take pictures while the car is moving. The first step which is image retrieval uses SIFT local feature descriptor to find an initial location for the vehicle using image matching. The next step is to utilize the Kalman filter to estimate a more accurate location for the vehicle as it is moving. All stages of the introduced method are implemented as a complete system using different Python libraries. The proposed system is tested on the KITTI dataset and has shown an average accuracy of 2 meters in finding the final location of the vehicle.
Learning Spatial Context with Graph Neural Network for Multi-Person Pose Grouping
Bottom-up approaches for image-based multi-person pose estimation consist of two stages: (1) keypoint detection and (2) grouping of the detected keypoints to form person instances. Current grouping approaches rely on learned embedding from only visual features that completely ignore the spatial configuration of human poses. In this work, we formulate the grouping task as a graph partitioning problem, where we learn the affinity matrix with a Graph Neural Network (GNN). More specifically, we design a Geometry-aware Association GNN that utilizes spatial information of the keypoints and learns local affinity from the global context. The learned geometry-based affinity is further fused with appearance-based affinity to achieve robust keypoint association. Spectral clustering is used to partition the graph for the formation of the pose instances. Experimental results on two benchmark datasets show that our proposed method outperforms existing appearance-only grouping frameworks, which shows the effectiveness of utilizing spatial context for robust grouping. Source code is available at: https://github.com/jiahaoLjh/PoseGrouping.
Bottom-Up Human Pose Estimation Via Disentangled Keypoint Regression
In this paper, we are interested in the bottom-up paradigm of estimating human poses from an image. We study the dense keypoint regression framework that is previously inferior to the keypoint detection and grouping framework. Our motivation is that regressing keypoint positions accurately needs to learn representations that focus on the keypoint regions.   We present a simple yet effective approach, named disentangled keypoint regression (DEKR). We adopt adaptive convolutions through pixel-wise spatial transformer to activate the pixels in the keypoint regions and accordingly learn representations from them. We use a multi-branch structure for separate regression: each branch learns a representation with dedicated adaptive convolutions and regresses one keypoint. The resulting disentangled representations are able to attend to the keypoint regions, respectively, and thus the keypoint regression is spatially more accurate. We empirically show that the proposed direct regression method outperforms keypoint detection and grouping methods and achieves superior bottom-up pose estimation results on two benchmark datasets, COCO and CrowdPose. The code and models are available at https://github.com/HRNet/DEKR.
End-to-end learning of keypoint detection and matching for relative pose estimation
We propose a new method for estimating the relative pose between two images, where we jointly learn keypoint detection, description extraction, matching and robust pose estimation. While our architecture follows the traditional pipeline for pose estimation from geometric computer vision, all steps are learnt in an end-to-end fashion, including feature matching. We demonstrate our method for the task of visual localization of a query image within a database of images with known pose. Pairwise pose estimation has many practical applications for robotic mapping, navigation, and AR. For example, the display of persistent AR objects in the scene relies on a precise camera localization to make the digital models appear anchored to the physical environment. We train our pipeline end-to-end specifically for the problem of visual localization. We evaluate our proposed approach on localization accuracy, robustness and runtime speed. Our method achieves state of the art localization accuracy on the 7 Scenes dataset.
Unconstrained Face Recognition using ASURF and Cloud-Forest Classifier optimized with VLAD
The paper posits a computationally-efficient algorithm for multi-class facial image classification in which images are constrained with translation, rotation, scale, color, illumination and affine distortion. The proposed method is divided into five main building blocks including Haar-Cascade for face detection, Bilateral Filter for image preprocessing to remove unwanted noise, Affine Speeded-Up Robust Features (ASURF) for keypoint detection and description, Vector of Locally Aggregated Descriptors (VLAD) for feature quantization and Cloud Forest for image classification. The proposed method aims at improving the accuracy and the time taken for face recognition systems. The usage of the Cloud Forest algorithm as a classifier on three benchmark datasets, namely the FACES95, FACES96 and ORL facial datasets, showed promising results. The proposed methodology using Cloud Forest algorithm successfully improves the recognition model by 2-12\% when differentiated against other ensemble techniques like the Random Forest classifier depending upon the dataset used.
LoFTR: Detector-Free Local Feature Matching with Transformers
We present a novel method for local image feature matching. Instead of performing image feature detection, description, and matching sequentially, we propose to first establish pixel-wise dense matches at a coarse level and later refine the good matches at a fine level. In contrast to dense methods that use a cost volume to search correspondences, we use self and cross attention layers in Transformer to obtain feature descriptors that are conditioned on both images. The global receptive field provided by Transformer enables our method to produce dense matches in low-texture areas, where feature detectors usually struggle to produce repeatable interest points. The experiments on indoor and outdoor datasets show that LoFTR outperforms state-of-the-art methods by a large margin. LoFTR also ranks first on two public benchmarks of visual localization among the published methods.
LIFT-SLAM: a deep-learning feature-based monocular visual SLAM method
The Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) problem addresses the possibility of a robot to localize itself in an unknown environment and simultaneously build a consistent map of this environment. Recently, cameras have been successfully used to get the environment's features to perform SLAM, which is referred to as visual SLAM (VSLAM). However, classical VSLAM algorithms can be easily induced to fail when either the motion of the robot or the environment is too challenging. Although new approaches based on Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) have achieved promising results in VSLAM, they still are unable to outperform traditional methods. To leverage the robustness of deep learning to enhance traditional VSLAM systems, we propose to combine the potential of deep learning-based feature descriptors with the traditional geometry-based VSLAM, building a new VSLAM system called LIFT-SLAM. Experiments conducted on KITTI and Euroc datasets show that deep learning can be used to improve the performance of traditional VSLAM systems, as the proposed approach was able to achieve results comparable to the state-of-the-art while being robust to sensorial noise. We enhance the proposed VSLAM pipeline by avoiding parameter tuning for specific datasets with an adaptive approach while evaluating how transfer learning can affect the quality of the features extracted.
A comparative evaluation of learned feature descriptors on hybrid monocular visual SLAM methods
Classical Visual Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (VSLAM) algorithms can be easily induced to fail when either the robot's motion or the environment is too challenging. The use of Deep Neural Networks to enhance VSLAM algorithms has recently achieved promising results, which we call hybrid methods. In this paper, we compare the performance of hybrid monocular VSLAM methods with different learned feature descriptors. To this end, we propose a set of experiments to evaluate the robustness of the algorithms under different environments, camera motion, and camera sensor noise. Experiments conducted on KITTI and Euroc MAV datasets confirm that learned feature descriptors can create more robust VSLAM systems.
Robust Registration of Multimodal Remote Sensing Images Based on Structural Similarity
Automatic registration of multimodal remote sensing data (e.g., optical, LiDAR, SAR) is a challenging task due to the significant non-linear radiometric differences between these data. To address this problem, this paper proposes a novel feature descriptor named the Histogram of Orientated Phase Congruency (HOPC), which is based on the structural properties of images. Furthermore, a similarity metric named HOPCncc is defined, which uses the normalized correlation coefficient (NCC) of the HOPC descriptors for multimodal registration. In the definition of the proposed similarity metric, we first extend the phase congruency model to generate its orientation representation, and use the extended model to build HOPCncc. Then a fast template matching scheme for this metric is designed to detect the control points between images. The proposed HOPCncc aims to capture the structural similarity between images, and has been tested with a variety of optical, LiDAR, SAR and map data. The results show that HOPCncc is robust against complex non-linear radiometric differences and outperforms the state-of-the-art similarities metrics (i.e., NCC and mutual information) in matching performance. Moreover, a robust registration method is also proposed in this paper based on HOPCncc, which is evaluated using six pairs of multimodal remote sensing images. The experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method for multimodal image registration.
LatentKeypointGAN: Controlling GANs via Latent Keypoints
Generative adversarial networks (GANs) have attained photo-realistic quality in image generation. However, how to best control the image content remains an open challenge. We introduce LatentKeypointGAN, a two-stage GAN which is trained end-to-end on the classical GAN objective with internal conditioning on a set of space keypoints. These keypoints have associated appearance embeddings that respectively control the position and style of the generated objects and their parts. A major difficulty that we address with suitable network architectures and training schemes is disentangling the image into spatial and appearance factors without domain knowledge and supervision signals. We demonstrate that LatentKeypointGAN provides an interpretable latent space that can be used to re-arrange the generated images by re-positioning and exchanging keypoint embeddings, such as generating portraits by combining the eyes, nose, and mouth from different images. In addition, the explicit generation of keypoints and matching images enables a new, GAN-based method for unsupervised keypoint detection.
3D3L: Deep Learned 3D Keypoint Detection and Description for LiDARs
With the advent of powerful, light-weight 3D LiDARs, they have become the hearth of many navigation and SLAM algorithms on various autonomous systems. Pointcloud registration methods working with unstructured pointclouds such as ICP are often computationally expensive or require a good initial guess. Furthermore, 3D feature-based registration methods have never quite reached the robustness of 2D methods in visual SLAM. With the continuously increasing resolution of LiDAR range images, these 2D methods not only become applicable but should exploit the illumination-independent modalities that come with it, such as depth and intensity. In visual SLAM, deep learned 2D features and descriptors perform exceptionally well compared to traditional methods. In this publication, we use a state-of-the-art 2D feature network as a basis for 3D3L, exploiting both intensity and depth of LiDAR range images to extract powerful 3D features. Our results show that these keypoints and descriptors extracted from LiDAR scan images outperform state-of-the-art on different benchmark metrics and allow for robust scan-to-scan alignment as well as global localization.
Factors of Influence for Transfer Learning across Diverse Appearance Domains and Task Types
Transfer learning enables to re-use knowledge learned on a source task to help learning a target task. A simple form of transfer learning is common in current state-of-the-art computer vision models, i.e. pre-training a model for image classification on the ILSVRC dataset, and then fine-tune on any target task. However, previous systematic studies of transfer learning have been limited and the circumstances in which it is expected to work are not fully understood. In this paper we carry out an extensive experimental exploration of transfer learning across vastly different image domains (consumer photos, autonomous driving, aerial imagery, underwater, indoor scenes, synthetic, close-ups) and task types (semantic segmentation, object detection, depth estimation, keypoint detection). Importantly, these are all complex, structured output tasks types relevant to modern computer vision applications. In total we carry out over 2000 transfer learning experiments, including many where the source and target come from different image domains, task types, or both. We systematically analyze these experiments to understand the impact of image domain, task type, and dataset size on transfer learning performance. Our study leads to several insights and concrete recommendations: (1) for most tasks there exists a source which significantly outperforms ILSVRC'12 pre-training; (2) the image domain is the most important factor for achieving positive transfer; (3) the source dataset should \emph{include} the image domain of the target dataset to achieve best results; (4) at the same time, we observe only small negative effects when the image domain of the source task is much broader than that of the target; (5) transfer across task types can be beneficial, but its success is heavily dependent on both the source and target task types.
End-to-End Trainable Multi-Instance Pose Estimation with Transformers
We propose an end-to-end trainable approach for multi-instance pose estimation, called POET (POse Estimation Transformer). Combining a convolutional neural network with a transformer encoder-decoder architecture, we formulate multiinstance pose estimation from images as a direct set prediction problem. Our model is able to directly regress the pose of all individuals, utilizing a bipartite matching scheme. POET is trained using a novel set-based global loss that consists of a keypoint loss, a visibility loss and a class loss. POET reasons about the relations between multiple detected individuals and the full image context to directly predict their poses in parallel. We show that POET achieves high accuracy on the COCO keypoint detection task while having less parameters and higher inference speed than other bottom-up and top-down approaches. Moreover, we show successful transfer learning when applying POET to animal pose estimation. To the best of our knowledge, this model is the first end-to-end trainable multi-instance pose estimation method and we hope it will serve as a simple and promising alternative.
Machine-Learning Classification of Closed and Open Radiating Wires from Near Magnetic or Electric Field Scan Images
Sets of intelligent classifiers are applied to the near-field scan-data in order to automatically classify the shape of radiating wirings. The support vector machine, k-nearest neighbors algorithm, and Gaussian process classifications are trained using the near-field radiation pattern of diverse radiating wire configurations. Leave-one-out cross-validation is used for estimating the performance of the predictive models. The output of this research is a software package well-suited to be retrained based on any measured near-field databank to automate the identification of magnetic-type or electric-type of the radiating coupling sources.
Deep Dual Consecutive Network for Human Pose Estimation
Multi-frame human pose estimation in complicated situations is challenging. Although state-of-the-art human joints detectors have demonstrated remarkable results for static images, their performances come short when we apply these models to video sequences. Prevalent shortcomings include the failure to handle motion blur, video defocus, or pose occlusions, arising from the inability in capturing the temporal dependency among video frames. On the other hand, directly employing conventional recurrent neural networks incurs empirical difficulties in modeling spatial contexts, especially for dealing with pose occlusions. In this paper, we propose a novel multi-frame human pose estimation framework, leveraging abundant temporal cues between video frames to facilitate keypoint detection. Three modular components are designed in our framework. A Pose Temporal Merger encodes keypoint spatiotemporal context to generate effective searching scopes while a Pose Residual Fusion module computes weighted pose residuals in dual directions. These are then processed via our Pose Correction Network for efficient refining of pose estimations. Our method ranks No.1 in the Multi-frame Person Pose Estimation Challenge on the large-scale benchmark datasets PoseTrack2017 and PoseTrack2018. We have released our code, hoping to inspire future research.
Regressive Domain Adaptation for Unsupervised Keypoint Detection
Domain adaptation (DA) aims at transferring knowledge from a labeled source domain to an unlabeled target domain. Though many DA theories and algorithms have been proposed, most of them are tailored into classification settings and may fail in regression tasks, especially in the practical keypoint detection task. To tackle this difficult but significant task, we present a method of regressive domain adaptation (RegDA) for unsupervised keypoint detection. Inspired by the latest theoretical work, we first utilize an adversarial regressor to maximize the disparity on the target domain and train a feature generator to minimize this disparity. However, due to the high dimension of the output space, this regressor fails to detect samples that deviate from the support of the source. To overcome this problem, we propose two important ideas. First, based on our observation that the probability density of the output space is sparse, we introduce a spatial probability distribution to describe this sparsity and then use it to guide the learning of the adversarial regressor. Second, to alleviate the optimization difficulty in the high-dimensional space, we innovatively convert the minimax game in the adversarial training to the minimization of two opposite goals. Extensive experiments show that our method brings large improvement by 8% to 11% in terms of PCK on different datasets.
Self-supervised Geometric Perception
We present self-supervised geometric perception (SGP), the first general framework to learn a feature descriptor for correspondence matching without any ground-truth geometric model labels (e.g., camera poses, rigid transformations). Our first contribution is to formulate geometric perception as an optimization problem that jointly optimizes the feature descriptor and the geometric models given a large corpus of visual measurements (e.g., images, point clouds). Under this optimization formulation, we show that two important streams of research in vision, namely robust model fitting and deep feature learning, correspond to optimizing one block of the unknown variables while fixing the other block. This analysis naturally leads to our second contribution -- the SGP algorithm that performs alternating minimization to solve the joint optimization. SGP iteratively executes two meta-algorithms: a teacher that performs robust model fitting given learned features to generate geometric pseudo-labels, and a student that performs deep feature learning under noisy supervision of the pseudo-labels. As a third contribution, we apply SGP to two perception problems on large-scale real datasets, namely relative camera pose estimation on MegaDepth and point cloud registration on 3DMatch. We demonstrate that SGP achieves state-of-the-art performance that is on-par or superior to the supervised oracles trained using ground-truth labels.
OpenPifPaf: Composite Fields for Semantic Keypoint Detection and Spatio-Temporal Association
Many image-based perception tasks can be formulated as detecting, associating and tracking semantic keypoints, e.g., human body pose estimation and tracking. In this work, we present a general framework that jointly detects and forms spatio-temporal keypoint associations in a single stage, making this the first real-time pose detection and tracking algorithm. We present a generic neural network architecture that uses Composite Fields to detect and construct a spatio-temporal pose which is a single, connected graph whose nodes are the semantic keypoints (e.g., a person's body joints) in multiple frames. For the temporal associations, we introduce the Temporal Composite Association Field (TCAF) which requires an extended network architecture and training method beyond previous Composite Fields. Our experiments show competitive accuracy while being an order of magnitude faster on multiple publicly available datasets such as COCO, CrowdPose and the PoseTrack 2017 and 2018 datasets. We also show that our method generalizes to any class of semantic keypoints such as car and animal parts to provide a holistic perception framework that is well suited for urban mobility such as self-driving cars and delivery robots.
Robust Place Recognition using an Imaging Lidar
We propose a methodology for robust, real-time place recognition using an imaging lidar, which yields image-quality high-resolution 3D point clouds. Utilizing the intensity readings of an imaging lidar, we project the point cloud and obtain an intensity image. ORB feature descriptors are extracted from the image and encoded into a bag-of-words vector. The vector, used to identify the point cloud, is inserted into a database that is maintained by DBoW for fast place recognition queries. The returned candidate is further validated by matching visual feature descriptors. To reject matching outliers, we apply PnP, which minimizes the reprojection error of visual features' positions in Euclidean space with their correspondences in 2D image space, using RANSAC. Combining the advantages from both camera and lidar-based place recognition approaches, our method is truly rotation-invariant, and can tackle reverse revisiting and upside down revisiting. The proposed method is evaluated on datasets gathered from a variety of platforms over different scales and environments. Our implementation and datasets are available at https://git.io/image-lidar
Patch-NetVLAD: Multi-Scale Fusion of Locally-Global Descriptors for Place Recognition
Visual Place Recognition is a challenging task for robotics and autonomous systems, which must deal with the twin problems of appearance and viewpoint change in an always changing world. This paper introduces Patch-NetVLAD, which provides a novel formulation for combining the advantages of both local and global descriptor methods by deriving patch-level features from NetVLAD residuals. Unlike the fixed spatial neighborhood regime of existing local keypoint features, our method enables aggregation and matching of deep-learned local features defined over the feature-space grid. We further introduce a multi-scale fusion of patch features that have complementary scales (i.e. patch sizes) via an integral feature space and show that the fused features are highly invariant to both condition (season, structure, and illumination) and viewpoint (translation and rotation) changes. Patch-NetVLAD outperforms both global and local feature descriptor-based methods with comparable compute, achieving state-of-the-art visual place recognition results on a range of challenging real-world datasets, including winning the Facebook Mapillary Visual Place Recognition Challenge at ECCV2020. It is also adaptable to user requirements, with a speed-optimised version operating over an order of magnitude faster than the state-of-the-art. By combining superior performance with improved computational efficiency in a configurable framework, Patch-NetVLAD is well suited to enhance both stand-alone place recognition capabilities and the overall performance of SLAM systems.
P2-Net: Joint Description and Detection of Local Features for Pixel and Point Matching
Accurately describing and detecting 2D and 3D keypoints is crucial to establishing correspondences across images and point clouds. Despite a plethora of learning-based 2D or 3D local feature descriptors and detectors having been proposed, the derivation of a shared descriptor and joint keypoint detector that directly matches pixels and points remains under-explored by the community. This work takes the initiative to establish fine-grained correspondences between 2D images and 3D point clouds. In order to directly match pixels and points, a dual fully convolutional framework is presented that maps 2D and 3D inputs into a shared latent representation space to simultaneously describe and detect keypoints. Furthermore, an ultra-wide reception mechanism in combination with a novel loss function are designed to mitigate the intrinsic information variations between pixel and point local regions. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that our framework shows competitive performance in fine-grained matching between images and point clouds and achieves state-of-the-art results for the task of indoor visual localization. Our source code will be available at [no-name-for-blind-review].
FisheyeSuperPoint: Keypoint Detection and Description Network for Fisheye Images
Keypoint detection and description is a commonly used building block in computer vision systems particularly for robotics and autonomous driving. However, the majority of techniques to date have focused on standard cameras with little consideration given to fisheye cameras which are commonly used in urban driving and automated parking. In this paper, we propose a novel training and evaluation pipeline for fisheye images. We make use of SuperPoint as our baseline which is a self-supervised keypoint detector and descriptor that has achieved state-of-the-art results on homography estimation. We introduce a fisheye adaptation pipeline to enable training on undistorted fisheye images. We evaluate the performance on the HPatches benchmark, and, by introducing a fisheye based evaluation method for detection repeatability and descriptor matching correctness, on the Oxford RobotCar dataset.
Human-Machine Collaborative Video Coding Through Cuboidal Partitioning
Video coding algorithms encode and decode an entire video frame while feature coding techniques only preserve and communicate the most critical information needed for a given application. This is because video coding targets human perception, while feature coding aims for machine vision tasks. Recently, attempts are being made to bridge the gap between these two domains. In this work, we propose a video coding framework by leveraging on to the commonality that exists between human vision and machine vision applications using cuboids. This is because cuboids, estimated rectangular regions over a video frame, are computationally efficient, has a compact representation and object centric. Such properties are already shown to add value to traditional video coding systems. Herein cuboidal feature descriptors are extracted from the current frame and then employed for accomplishing a machine vision task in the form of object detection. Experimental results show that a trained classifier yields superior average precision when equipped with cuboidal features oriented representation of the current test frame. Additionally, this representation costs $7\%$ less in bit rate if the captured frames are need be communicated to a receiver.
